5	Determining the cause of chronic cough is . , more than one underlying condition may be causing your chronic cough. . If you are currently smoking, your doctor will discuss with you your readiness to quit and provide assistance to achieve this goal. . Antihistamines, corticosteroids and decongestants. These drugs are standard treatment for allergies and postnasal drip. Inhaled asthma drugs. The treatments for asthma-related cough are corticosteroids and bronchodilators, which reduce inflammation and open up your airways. Antibiotics. If a infection is causing your chronic cough, your doctor may prescribe medications to address the infection. Acid blockers. When lifestyle changes don't take care , you may be treated . Some people need surgery to resolve the problem. Coughing also helps prevent infections. Cough medicines usually are used only when the cause of the cough is unknown and the cough causes a lot of discomfort. Medicines can help control a cough and make it easier to cough up mucus. Your doctor may recommend medicines called antitussives. These medicines can help relieve a cough. Examples are water, soup, and juice. Ask your doctor how much fluid you need. Cough No evidence shows that cough and cold medicines help children recover . These medicines can even harm children.
24	Primary familial brain calcification is caused by mutations in one of several genes. The gene is called SLC2 , and accounts for an estimated 40 percent of cases, followed by the PDGFRB gene, which is mutated . Changes in other genes each account for a small percentage of cases. In about half of individuals with primary familial brain calcification the genetic cause is unknown. These individuals are thought to have mutations . . To date, no specific treatment for PFBC is known. Medications can be used to treat symptoms associated with this condition, such as movement disorders, seizures, anxiety, depression, psychosis and urinary incontinence. prescription of biphosphanates have been reported . The diagnosis of PFBC relies upon: 1) visualization of bilateral (on both sides) calcification of the basal ganglia on neuroimaging, 2) presence of progressive neurological dysfunction, 3) absence of a metabolic, infectious, toxic, or traumatic cause, and 4) a family history consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (a person must inherit one copy of the altered gene from one parent to have the condition). Molecular genetic testing can help confirm the diagnosis. Genetic testing may help to confirm the diagnosis. For individuals in who a diagnosis of PFBC is being considered, other causes of brain calcification should be eliminated prior to pursuing genetic testing, particularly . Testing that might be done includes biochemical analysis of blood and urine, analysis of cerebrospinal fluid. If no other primary cause for brain calcification is detected or if the family history is , molecular genetic testing should be considered. Sequencing of SLC2 should be pursued first. If no mutation is identified, deletion / duplication analysis of SLC2 may be considered. If no identifiable mutation or deletion in SLC2 is found, sequence analysis of PDGFRB and PDGFB may be considered. Testing Resources The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) provides information about the genetic tests for this condition. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional.
38	Fortunately, 70% eventually experience full recovery. , even those individuals with respiratory failure usually survive. . Typically, the point occurs days to 4 weeks after the first symptoms occur. The recovery period may be up to a few years. Some individuals still report ongoing improvement . About 30 percent of those with Guillain-Barr have residual weakness after 3 years. About 3 percent may suffer a relapse . About 15 percent of individuals experience long-term weakness; some may require ongoing use . Muscle strength may not return uniformly. Recovery can take weeks, months, or years. Most people survive and recover completely. In some people, mild weakness may persist. The outcome is likely to be good when the symptoms go away within 3 weeks after they first started. Possible complications of GBS include: Breathing difficulty (respiratory failure) Shortening of tissues in the joints (contractures) or other deformities Blood clots (deep vein thrombosis) that form when the person with GBS is inactive or has to stay in bed Increased risk of infections Low or unstable blood pressure Paralysis that is permanent Pneumonia Skin damage (ulcers) Breathing food or fluids .
94	The prostate gland is located underneath the bladder and is about the size of a chestnut. , you can see that part of the urethra is encased within the prostate gland. , the prostate typically enlarges in size in a benign hypertrophy, which means that the gland got larger . The enlarged prostate crowds its anatomical neighbors, particularly the urethra, causing it to narrow. The narrowed urethra results in several of the symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy, or BPH. Symptoms may include a start in urination, the need to urinate frequently during the night, difficulty in emptying the bladder, a strong, sudden urge to urinate, and incontinence. Less than half of all men with BPH have symptoms of the disease, or their symptoms are minor and do not restrict their life style. BPH is a normal physiological process of aging and treatment options are available. The choice of the appropriate treatment is based on the severity of the symptoms, the extent to which they affect lifestyle, and the presence of other medical conditions. Treatment options include "watchful waiting," lifestyle changes, medicines, or surgery. If you are , you are more likely to have symptoms. But many men with an enlarged prostate have only minor symptoms. Self-care steps are often enough to make you feel better. If you have BPH, you should have a yearly exam to monitor your symptoms and see if you need changes in treatment. BPH symptoms improve in some men after a course of antibiotics. Watch out for drugs that may make your symptoms worse:SAW PALMETTO. Many herbs have been tried . Many men use saw palmetto to ease symptoms.
95	You will probably be able to go home or even the same day in some cases. You should be . Ask your provider how much you can use the arm on the side where the pacemaker was placed. You may be advised not to: Lift anything heavier than 10 to 15 pounds (4.5 ) Push, pull, and twist your arm . Raise your arm . When you leave the hospital, you will be given a card to keep in your wallet. This card lists the details of your pacemaker and has contact information . You should always carry this wallet card with you. You should try to remember the name of the pacemaker manufacturer if you can in case you lose your card. Most machines and devices will not interfere with your pacemaker. But some with strong magnetic fields may. Always ask your provider . DO NOT put a magnet near your pacemaker. Most appliances in your home are safe to be around. DO NOT lean . Also stay away from: Radio transmitters and high-voltage power lines Products that use magnetic therapy, such as some mattresses, pillows, and massagers Large electrical- or gasoline-powered appliances. If you have a cell phone: DO NOT put it in a pocket on the same side as your pacemaker. When using your cell phone, hold it to your ear on the opposite side . Be . Show your wallet card and ask to be hand searched.
97	States require newborn hearing screenings. Treating hearing loss early can allow many infants to develop normal language skills . , treatments should start as early as age 6 months. Treatment depends on the baby's overall health and the cause . Treatment may include: Speech therapy Learning sign language Cochlear implant ( with profound sensorineural hearing loss) Treating the cause may include: Medicines Surgery to correct structural problems. Assistive listening devices devices can help you hear . Some hearing aids can be plugged to help you hear better. Cochlear Implant If your hearing loss is severe and , your doctor may suggest that you talk to an otolaryngologist about a cochlear implant. An otolaryngologist is a surgeon who specializes in ear, nose, and throat diseases. A cochlear implant is a small electronic device that the surgeon places under the skin and behind the ear. The device picks up sounds, changes them to electrical signals, and sends them past the non-working part of the inner ear and on to the brain. Hearing through a cochlear implant sounds different from normal hearing, but it lets many people communicate orally in person and , and perceive sounds in the environment. Conductive hearing loss (CHL) occurs because of a mechanical problem in the outer or middle ear. This may be because: The 3 tiny bones of the ear (ossicles) are not conducting sound properly. Causes can often be treated. They include: Buildup of wax in the ear canal Damage to the very small bones (ossicles) that are right behind the eardrum Fluid remaining in the ear after an ear infection Foreign object that is stuck in the ear canal Hole in the eardrum Scar on the eardrum from repeated infections Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) occurs when the tiny hair cells (nerve endings) that detect sound in the ear are injured, diseased, do not work correctly, or have died. This type often cannot be reversed. Sensorineural hearing loss is commonly caused by: Acoustic neuroma Age-related hearing loss Childhood infections, such as meningitis, mumps, scarlet fever, and measles Mnire' disease Regular exposure to loud noises (such as from work or recreation) Use of certain medicines Hearing loss may be present at birth (congenital) and can be due to: Birth defects that cause changes in the ear structures Genetic conditions (more than 4 are known) Infections the mother passes to her baby in the womb (such as toxoplasmosis, rubella, or herpes The ear can also be injured by: Pressure differences between the inside and outside of the eardrum, often from scuba diving Skull fractures (can damage the structures or nerves of the ear) Trauma from explosions, fireworks, gunfire, rock concerts, and earphones. Sensorineural deafness is a type . It occurs from damage to the inner ear, the nerve that runs from the ear to the brain (auditory nerve), or the brain.
102	As with many disorders of the spinal cord, no effective cure currently exists for people with transverse myelitis. Treatments are designed to manage and alleviate symptoms and largely depend . Physicians often prescribe corticosteroid therapy to decrease inflammation. Corticosteroid medications that might be prescribed may include methylprednisone or dexamethasone. Chronic pain is a common complication of transverse myelitis. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, others) can help reduce inflammation and relieve pain. Bed rest is often recommended after onset of the disorder. , additional therapeutic options may be added. Plasma exchange therapy is often used for those with moderate to severe transverse myelitis who dont show much improvement . This therapy involves removing the straw-colored fluid blood cells are suspended (plasma) and replacing the plasma loss . It's not certain how this therapy helps people with transverse myelitis, but it may be that plasma exchange removes antibodies that are involved in inflammation. Some patients respond to intravenous cyclophosphamide (a drug often used for lymphomas or leukemia). The outlook for people with transverse myelitis varies. About a third of people with transverse myelitis recover completely. Some people recover with moderate disabilities, such as bowel problems and trouble walking. Those who may have poor chance of recovery are: People who have rapid onset of symptoms People whose symptoms do not improve Transverse myelitis usually only occurs once . It may recur in some people People who have involvement of only on one side of the spinal cord may be . Transverse myelitis is a neurological disorder caused by inflammation of the spinal cord, which carries nerve signals to the rest of the body. The segment of the spinal cord that has inflammation or damage determines the symptoms a person has. Generally, inflammation causes symptoms . Most commonly, the upper spinal cord is affected, causing impaired leg movement, and problems controlling the bowel and bladder. The onset of symptoms may be acute (sudden, developing ) or subacute (developing ). The cause of transverse myelitis may be unknown (idiopathic) or it may be associated with a wide variety of underlying health problems, including infections, immune system disorders, and other inflammatory disorders. Tests that may be used to diagnose transverse myelitis include MRI to look for compression or inflammation of the spinal cord, and a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) to look for evidence of inflammation (cerebrospinal fluid). Treatment options may include intravenous steroids, pain medicines, plasmapheresis (also called plasma exchange), intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and cyclophosphamide. Some people have recovery from symptoms, while others do not recover any lost function in the affected parts of the body. Most people recover partially, although recovery can take up to 2 or 3 years. however, if there is no improvement , a significant recovery is not likely.
103	If you're , get a full eye exam every 1 to 2 years. That way, if your doctor finds glaucoma, you can start treatment to lower the pressure in your eyes, even if you dont have symptoms yet. Daily treatment will be needed to prevent vision loss. Glaucoma is a group of diseases that can damage the eye's optic nerve and result in vision loss and blindness. While glaucoma can strike anyone, the risk is . How Glaucoma Develops There are several different types of glaucoma. Most of these involve the drainage system within the eye. When fluid reaches the angle, it flows , and leaves the eye. Sometimes, when the fluid reaches the angle, it passes , causing the pressure inside the eye to build. If the pressure damages the optic nerve, open-angle glaucoma -- and vision loss -- may result. There is no cure for glaucoma. Vision lost from the disease cannot be restored. Glaucoma is an eye disease that causes vision loss. It usually happens when pressure eyeball damages the nerve in your eye (optic nerve). Vision loss usually happens slowly, so you may not notice it right away Glaucoma gets worse over time It can cause lasting vision loss and blindness if not treated Special eye drops (prescribed by your doctor) can lower the pressure in your eye Get a full eye exam every 1 to 2 years to detect glaucoma early and help prevent vision loss If you have glaucoma, the doctor will need to check the pressure in your eyes often.
105	Dementia is not a specific disease. It is a descriptive term for a collection of symptoms that can be caused by a number of disorders that affect the brain. People with dementia have significantly impaired intellectual functioning that interferes . They also lose their ability to solve problems and maintain emotional control, and they may experience personality changes and behavioral problems, . While memory loss is a common symptom of dementia, memory loss by itself does not mean that a person has dementia. Doctors diagnose dementia only if two or more brain functions - -- are significantly impaired without loss of consciousness. Some of the diseases that can cause symptoms of dementia are Alzheimers disease, vascular dementia, Lewy body dementia, frontotemporal dementia, Huntingtons disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Doctors have identified other conditions that can cause dementia or dementia-like symptoms including reactions to medications, metabolic problems and endocrine abnormalities, nutritional deficiencies, infections, poisoning, brain tumors, anoxia or hypoxia (conditions in which the brains oxygen supply is either reduced or cut off entirely), and heart and lung problems. Although it is , dementia is not a normal part of the aging process. To diagnose dementia, doctors first assess whether a person has an underlying treatable condition . Early diagnosis is important, as some causes for symptoms can be treated. In many cases, the specific type of dementia a person has may not be confirmed until after the person has died and the brain is examined. A medical assessment for dementia generally includes:- Patient history. Typical questions about a person's medical and family history might include asking about whether dementia runs in the family, symptoms began, changes in behavior and personality, and if the person is taking certain medications that might cause or worsen symptoms. Physical exam. Measuring blood pressure and other vital signs may help physicians detect conditions that might cause or occur with dementia. Such conditions may be treatable. Neurological tests.
110	When acrocallosal syndrome is caused by KIF7 gene mutations, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Acrocallosal syndrome (or severe Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome) resulting from GLI3 gene mutations is considered autosomal dominant , which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. This condition results from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder . According to many investigators, acrocallosal syndrome, Schinzel type may be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Human traits, , are the product of the interaction of two genes, one received from the father and one . In recessive disorders, the condition does not appear unless a person inherits the same defective gene for the same trait from each parent. If an individual receives one normal gene and one gene , the person will be a carrier but usually will not show symptoms. .
115	How long someone can spread the virus that causes COVID-19 is still . It?s possible for people to spread the virus for about 2 days before experiencing signs or symptoms and remain contagious for 10 days after signs or symptoms first appeared. If someone is asymptomatic or their symptoms go away, it?s possible to remain contagious for 10 days after testing positive for COVID-19. Some adults with severe illness may produce replication-competent virus beyond 10 days that may warrant extending duration of isolation and precautions for up to 20 days after symptom onset; severely immunocompromised patients may produce replication-competent virus beyond 20 days and require additional testing and consultation with infectious diseases specialists and infection control experts. Role of viral diagnostic testing (RT-PCR or antigen) to discontinue isolation or precautions For adults who are severely immunocompromised, a test-based strategy could be considered . , a test-based strategy is recommended except to discontinue isolation or precautions would occur .
116	Some tips that may help reduce swelling:. . Put your legs to raise them above your heart while lying down. Exercise your legs. This helps pump fluid from your legs back to your heart. Follow a low-salt diet, which may reduce fluid buildup and swelling. Wear support stockings (sold drugstores and medical supply stores). When traveling, take breaks often to stand up and move around. Avoid wearing tight clothing or garters . Lose weight if you need to. Follow your health care provider's treatment recommendations. If you have long-term swelling, ask your provider to prevent skin breakdown, . Flotation ring. Lamb's wool pad. Pressure-reducing mattress Continue with your everyday activities. When lying down, keep your arms and legs above your heart level, if possible, so the fluid can drain. DO NOT do this if you get shortness of breath. See your provider instead.
117	WHO is working closely with Ministries of Health, regional and national influenza research and surveillance centres, and other stakeholders to develop a multi-layered approach to preparing for and responding to both seasonal flu outbreaks and pandemics. Specific WHO programmes include the Global Influenza Surveillance and Response System (GISRS), and the Pandemic Influenza Preparedness Framework, which helps developing countries access vaccines, antivirals, and diagnostics to both prepare for and manage pandemics. WHO and partners are developing a Global Influenza Strategy to be launched in 2 . Aligned with the general programme of work 2 -2 (GPW13), the new strategy will support WHO Member States . These national efforts, in turn, will build greater global preparedness for the next pandemic. Globally, the strategy will focus . This will include improved influenza modelling and forecasting, along with the development of new vaccines, including a possible universal influenza vaccine. This page links all information on influenza. Pandemic Influenza outbreaks have been , and needing a global response. One million people around the world died . In 1968, another outbreak took 1 to 3 million lives. In 2 , A(H5N1) or so-called Avian Influenza highlighted how the virus could pass to humans, but it did not reach the pandemic stage because it did not pass . The 2 Swine flu A(H1N1) pandemic, started in Mexico and spread to over 214 countries and overseas territories or communities. The world was lucky: it turned out to be even milder . Researchers are always , though, because the next outbreak could be . WHO/SEARO/T.Pietrasik.
119	This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor . Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about zoledronic acid injection. What is the information I should know about zoledronic acid injection? You should not receive zoledronic acid injection if you are already receiving Zometa. Both zoledronic acid injection and Zometa contain zoledronic acid. How will I receive zoledronic acid injection? Your doctor will tell you you will receive zoledronic acid injection. Zoledronic acid injection is given by infusion into your vein (intravenously). Your infusion should last 15 minutes. Before you receive zoledronic acid injection, drink at least 2 glasses of fluid (such as water) within a few hours as directed by your doctor. It is a group . In scleroderma, the tissue gets . Symptoms of scleroderma include.
121	Using multiple doses , 912 patients were treated (125 to 5 mg twice daily). There were no deaths or permanent disabilities thought related . Twenty (2.2%) patients discontinued . Seventeen (85%) did so , . The percentage of cefuroxime axetil tablet-treated patients who discontinued study drug because of adverse events was very similar at daily doses , , 5 , and 250 mg (2.3%, 2.1%, and 2.2%, respectively). However, the incidence increased . The following adverse events were thought to be certainly related to cefuroxime axetil tablets in multiple-dose clinical trials (n = 912 cefuroxime axetil-treated patients). . Cefuroxime comes as a tablet and a suspension (liquid) to take . It is usually taken every 12 hours (twice a day) for 7-10 days. To treat gonorrhea, cefuroxime is taken , and to treat Lyme disease, cefuroxime is taken twice a day . The tablet may be taken , and the liquid must be taken . To help you remember to take cefuroxime, take it . Follow the directions carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take cefuroxime exactly as directed. Do not take or take it . Shake the liquid well .
122	Being can raise your chances of cancer, including: Tobacco smoke: Lung, mouth, throat, esophagus, kidney, and bladder cancers Asbestos (a mineral fiber used ): Lung cancer and mesothelioma (cancer in the tissues that line your lungs) Sunlight: Skin cancer X-rays: Leukemia and cancer in the organ exposed to radiation Radon (a radioactive gas that comes from the ground and can build up to harmful levels in basements): Lung cancer Some chemicals used at work (such as benzene, chromates, nickel, certain pesticides, and vinyl chloride) can cause cancer. Geography (where you live) can affect your chances of getting cancer. One reason is that people in different areas may be exposed to different amounts of carcinogens. Another reason is that people in different areas may have different genetic risk factors. Genes are the instructions that tell each what to do. Genes tell cells when to grow, when to stop growing, and what substances to make. For example, certain genes tell cells . Sometimes one of your genes can go bad in ways that make a cell turn cancerous. A gene can go you were exposed to (an environmental factor) The gene was copied incorrectly , you inherited a cancer gene . Sometimes people in a family are more likely to have a certain cancer. A cancer-causing gene could run in that family. One cancer-causing gene called . BRCA. increases the risk of breast cancer. Not being physically active. Women who are not physically active have a higher risk of getting breast cancer. Being overweight or obese after menopause. Older women who are overweight or obese have a higher risk of getting breast cancer . Having the first pregnancy after age 30, not breastfeeding, and never having a full-term pregnancy can raise breast cancer risk. Studies show that a woman?s risk for breast cancer increases . Research suggests that other factors , being exposed to chemicals that can cause cancer, and changes in other hormones due also may increase breast cancer risk.
125	Systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus) is a chronic (long-lasting) autoimmune disease that can affect many parts of the body. Lupus occurs when the immune system, which normally helps protect the body from infection and disease, attacks its own tissues. This attack causes inflammation, and permanent tissue damage, which can be widespread affecting the skin, joints, heart, lung, kidneys, circulating blood cells, and brain. If you have lupus, you may experience periods of illness (flares) and periods of wellness (remission). Lupus flares can be ,and they are unpredictable. However, , many people with lupus can manage the disease. Most people can usually participate in the same life activities they did before they were diagnosed. . Pregnancy and Contraception . Most women with lupus can have healthy pregnancies if the disease is . If you start to plan a pregnancy, talk so you can be . Close monitoring is essential, especially if you have low platelets, antiphospholipid antibodies, anti-SSA/Ro antibodies, high blood pressure, lung or heart problems, or kidney disease. Researchers are exploring . Treatment. Scientists are exploring how lupus develops and how therapies affect the course of the disease. They are also exploring drugs to prevent or delay kidney failure, one of the most serious and life-threatening complications of lupus. Experts are also collaborating to develop registries and working groups, , which gathers medical information blood and tissue samples . Treatment.
129	Summary : A suprapubic catheter (tube) drains urine from your bladder. It is inserted into your bladder . You may need a catheter because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being able to urinate), surgery that made a catheter necessary, or another health problem. What : Your catheter will make it to drain your bladder and avoid infections. You will need to make sure it is working properly. You will also need to know how to change it. You will need to change it every 4 to 6 weeks. You can learn how to change your catheter in a sterile (very clean) way. Avoid physical activity . It is best to keep the catheter taped to your belly. Once your catheter is , you will need to empty your urine bag only a few times a day. Caring for Your Skin Near your Catheter : Follow these guidelines . Check the catheter site a few times a day. You are leaking urine. You will need to check your catheter and bag . Always keep your bag below your waist. Try not to disconnect the catheter more than you need to. Keeping it connected to the bag will make it work better. Check for kinks, and move the tubing around if it is not draining. Drink plenty of water during the day to keep urine flowing.
131	There are many possible causes of numbness and tingling, including: Sitting or standing in the same position for a long time, Injuring a nerve (a neck injury may cause you to feel numbness anywhere along your arm or hand, while a low back injury can cause numbness or tingling down the back of your leg), Pressure on the nerves of the spine, such as from a herniated disk, Pressure on peripheral nerves from enlarged blood vessels, tumors, scar tissue, or infection, Shingles or herpes zoster infection, Other infections such as HIV/AIDS, leprosy, syphilis, or tuberculosis, Lack of blood supply to an area, such as from hardening of the arteries, frostbite, or vessel inflammation, Abnormal levels of calcium, potassium, or sodium in your body, Deficiency of B vitamins such as B1, B6, B12, or folic acid, Use of certain medicines, Use of certain illicit street drugs, Nerve damage due to lead, alcohol, or tobacco, or from chemotherapy drugs, Radiation therapy, Animal bites, Insect, tick, mite, and spider bites, Seafood toxins, Congenital conditions that affect the nerves. Numbness and tingling can be caused by other medical conditions, including: Carpal tunnel syndrome (pressure on a nerve at the wrist), Diabetes Migraines Multiple sclerosis Seizures Stroke Transient ischemic attack (TIA), sometimes called a "mini-stroke", Underactive thyroid Raynaud phenomenon (narrowing of the blood vessels, usually in the hands and feet). See your regular doctor or foot doctor : Pain . Tingling, burning, or pain in your feet. Loss to feel heat or cold . A change in the shape of your feet . Fungus infections . A blister, sore, ulcer, infected corn, or ingrown toenail. Most people with diabetes can prevent serious foot complications. Regular care at home and going to all doctor?s appointments are your best bet for preventing foot problems (and stopping small problems from becoming serious ones).More Information Diabetes and Foot Problemsexternal icon Diabetes Features &amp; Spotlights CDC Diabetes on Facebook @CDCDiabetes on Twitter. Numbness and tingling are abnormal sensations that can occur anywhere in your body, but they are often felt in your fingers, hands, feet, arms, or legs. Some people with nerve damage have numbness, tingling, or pain, but others have no symptoms. Nerve damage can also lower your ability to feel pain, heat, or cold. Living sounds , but it comes . Pain is the body?s way . you can do to prevent nerve damage or stop it ? Keep your blood sugar in your target range . Other good diabetes management habits can help, too: Don?t smoke. Smoking reduces blood flow to the feet. Follow a healthy eating plan, .
133	Steps for first aid treatment of a crush injury are: Stop bleeding by applying direct pressure. Cover the area with a wet cloth or bandage. Then, raise the area above the level of the heart, if possible. If there is suspicion of a head, neck, or spinal injury, immobilize those areas if possible and then limit movement to only the crushed area. Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or local hospital . Crush injuries most often need to be evaluated in a hospital emergency department. Surgery may be needed. Your health care provider will likely instruct you to follow RICE to help reduce pain and swelling: Rest your elbow. Avoid lifting anything with your arm and elbow. Don't move the elbow unless you're instructed to do so. Ice your elbow for 15 to 20 minutes . Wrap the ice in cloth. DO NOT place ice directly . Cold from the ice can damage your skin. Compress the area by wrapping it with an elastic bandage or compression wrap. Elevate your elbow by raising it above the level . You can prop it up with pillows. You can take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce pain and swelling. You may need to wear a sling, splint, or cast . Depending on it is sprained, you may need to work with a physical therapist who will show you stretching and strengthening exercises. Most people recover completely .
136	Many different conditions can cause abdominal pain. causes of abdominal pain include: Constipation Irritable bowel syndrome, Food allergies or intolerance (such as lactose intolerance), Food poisoning Stomach flu. Other possible causes include: Appendicitis Abdominal aortic aneurysm (bulging and weakening of the major artery in the body), Bowel blockage or obstruction Cancer of the stomach, colon (large bowel), and other organs Cholecystitis (inflammation of the gallbladder) with or without gallstones, Decreased blood supply to the intestines (ischemic bowel) Diverticulitis (inflammation and infection ), Heartburn, indigestion, or gastroesophageal reflux (GERD), Inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis), Kidney stones Pancreatitis (swelling or infection ). Ulcers Sometimes, abdominal pain may occur . For example, you may have abdominal pain if you have: Severe menstrual cramps Endometriosis Muscle strain Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) Tubal (ectopic) pregnancy Ruptured ovarian cyst Urinary tract infections. Almost everyone has pain . How bad your pain is does not always reflect the seriousness of the condition causing the pain. For example, you might have abdominal pain if you have gas or stomach cramps . However, life-threatening conditions, , may only cause mild pain or no pain. Other ways to describe pain in your abdomen include. Generalized pain: This means that you feel it . This type of pain is . If the pain becomes , it may be caused . You can try the following home care steps to ease mild abdominal pain. If you have been vomiting, wait 6 hours, and then eat small amounts . If the pain is high up in your abdomen and occurs , antacids may help, especially if you feel heartburn or indigestion. Avoid citrus, high-fat foods, foods, tomato products, caffeine, alcohol, and carbonated beverages. Avoid aspirin, ibuprofen or other anti-inflammatory medications, and narcotic pain pills unless your health care provider prescribes them. If you know that your pain is not related to your liver, you can try acetaminophen (Tylenol). Call your health care provider if: Waking to urinate continues . You are bothered by the number . You have a burning sensation when urinating.
140	However, laboratory tests may help a doctor determine whether depression is caused by a hormonal or other physical disorder. People who have severely disturbed sleep may need to have testing (polysomnography) to distinguish sleep disorders from depression. The risk factors for depression are family history, life experiences, and environment. For example, some older adults who are at risk for illnesses such as heart disease or stroke may have hardening and inflammation of the blood vessels, and blood may not be able to flow normally to the body's organs, including the brain. If this happens, an older adult with no family history of depression may develop what some doctors call "vascular depression. " Older adults may also experience depression as a result of brain changes caused by illnesses such as Alzheimers disease or Parkinsons disease. This type of depression can appear in the early stages of these diseases, before many symptoms appear. Certain medicines and some health problems (such as viruses or a thyroid disorder) can cause the same symptoms as depression. Sometimes depression can be part of another mental health condition. Diagnosis of depression includes a mental health professional asking questions about your life, emotions, struggles, and symptoms. To be diagnosed with depression, the symptoms must be present for at least two weeks. A person diagnosed with persistent depressive disorder may have episodes of major depression along with periods of symptoms, but symptoms must last for two years to be considered persistent depressive disorder. Women with postpartum depression experience full-blown major depression during pregnancy or after delivery (postpartum depression). Women are twice as likely as men to be diagnosed with depression. Depression is one of the mental disorders in the U.S. Current research suggests that depression is caused by a combination of genetic, biological, environmental, and psychological factors. Depression can happen at any age, but often begins in adulthood. Depression is now recognized as occurring in children and adolescents, although it sometimes presents . These conditions are when depression is present. Sometimes medications taken for these physical illnesses may cause side effects that contribute to depression. Risk factors include: Personal or family history of depression, Major life changes, trauma, or stress, Certain physical illnesses and medications.
141	In addition to FLUAD and FLUAD Quadrivalent, one other flu vaccine is licensed specifically for people 65 years and older. The high-dose flu vaccine (Fluzone High-Dose Quadrivalent) contains four times the amount of antigen as the standard-dose inactivated flu vaccine, and has been associated with a stronger immune response following vaccination and better effectiveness than the regular dose flu vaccine in older people in a two-season randomized trial. People may also receive standard-dose, flu vaccines without adjuvant or the recombinant flu vaccine. People 65 years and older can get any flu vaccine approved for use in that age group . Most people with the flu get . But it can be serious. It can cause complications and sometimes even death. Getting the flu vaccine every year is the best way to lower your chance . The flu vaccine causes antibodies to develop after you get it. These antibodies provide protection with the viruses that are in the vaccine. There are different types , including some especially for people 65 and older. Ask your health care provider which one is right for you. Everyone 6 months of age and older should get a flu vaccine every season. People should check before getting a vaccine. Other exceptions are people who have Had reactions before Guillain-Barre Syndrome A fever Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In the United States, FLUAD and FLUAD Quadrivalent are licensed only for persons aged 65 years and older. FLUAD and FLUAD Quadrivalent should not be given to the any flu vaccine or . Information is located .
142	During pregnancy, your body makes special hormones and goes . , your body's cells don't use insulin well, a condition called insulin resistance. All pregnant women have some insulin resistance during late pregnancy. Most pregnant women can produce enough insulin to overcome insulin resistance, but some cannot. These women develop gestational diabetes glucose in your blood is not good for you or your baby. Gestational diabetes is usually diagnosed in the 24th to 28th week of pregnancy. Managing your gestational diabetes can help you and your baby stay healthy. You can protect your own and your baby's health by taking action to manage your blood glucose levels.
143	Metoprolol may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: - dizziness or lightheadedness - tiredness - depression - nausea - dry mouth - stomach pain - vomiting - gas or bloating - heartburn - constipation - rash or itching - cold hands and feet - runny nose Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: - shortness of breath - wheezing - swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs - weight gain - fainting - rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Metoprolol may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems . If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online (http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch) or by phone (1-8 -332-1 ). Most of the time, medicines make our lives better. They reduce aches and pains, fight infections, and control problems . But medicines can also cause unwanted reactions. One problem is interactions, which may occur between Two drugs, such as aspirin and blood thinners Drugs and food, such as statins and grapefruit Drugs and supplements, such as ginkgo and blood thinners Drugs and diseases, such as aspirin and peptic ulcers Interactions can change the actions of one or both drugs. The drugs might not work, or you could get side effects. Side effects are unwanted effects caused by the drugs. Most are mild, . Others can be more serious. Drug allergies are another type of reaction.
144	The cause of lactic acidosis is severe medical illness in which blood pressure is low and too little oxygen is reaching the bodys tissues. Intense exercise or convulsions can cause temporary cause lactic acidosis. Certain diseases can also cause the condition including: AIDS Alcoholism Cancer Cirrhosis Cyanide poisoning Kidney failure Respiratory failure Sepsis (severe infection) Some medicines can rarely cause lactic acidosis: Certain inhalers used to treat asthma or COPD Epinephrine An antibiotic called linezolid Metformin, used to treat diabetes ( overdosed) One type of medicine used to treat HIV infection Propofol. Lactic acidosis refers to lactic acid build up in the bloodstream. Lactic acid is produced when oxygen levels, become low in cells within the areas of the body where metabolism takes place. The main treatment for lactic acidosis is to correct the medical problem that causes the condition.
145	who are :. Younger adults should have the test every 5 years Men ages 45 to 65 and women ages 55 to 65 should have it every 1 to 2 years . What affects my cholesterol levels?. A variety of things can affect cholesterol levels. These are some things you can do to lower your cholesterol levels: Diet. Saturated fat and cholesterol in the food you eat make your blood cholesterol level rise. HDL helps to remove bad cholesterol from your arteries. So a lower HDL can contribute to a higher level of bad cholesterol. Things outside of your control that can also affect cholesterol levels include: Age and Gender. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your body. . What are the treatments ?. If you have high cholesterol, lifestyle changes can help you to lower your cholesterol level. But sometimes the lifestyle changes are not enough, and you need to take cholesterol medicines. You should still continue with the lifestyle changes even though you are taking medicines. . Who needs cholesterol medicines?. Your health care provider may prescribe medicine if: You have already had a heart attack or stroke, or you have peripheral arterial disease Your LDL (bad) cholesterol level is 190 mg/dL or higher You are 40-75 years old, you have diabetes, and your LDL cholesterol level is 70 mg/dL or higher You are 40-75 years old, you have a high risk of developing heart disease or stroke, and your LDL cholesterol level is 70 mg/dL or higher . What are the different types of medicines for cholesterol?. Combination medicines, which include more than one type of cholesterol-lowering medicine There are also a few other cholesterol medicines (lomitapide and mipomersen) that are only who have familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). FH is an inherited disorder that causes high LDL cholesterol. . How does my health care provider decide which cholesterol medicine I should take?. When deciding which medicine you should take and which dose you need, your health care provider will consider Your cholesterol levels Your risk Your age Any other health problems you have Possible side effects of the medicines. Higher doses are .
148	A heart attack is when blood flow to part of your heart is suddenly blocked and some of your heart muscle dies. Doctors use the term myocardial infarction to refer to a heart attack. Myocardium is a word for heart muscle, and infarction is a word for blocked blood flow. So a myocardial infarction is a heart attack. Go if you think you're having a heart attack You may have chest pressure, shortness of breath, and a tired feeling if you're having a heart problem Sometimes a heart attack may cause mild symptoms or none at all (silent heart attack) Doctors do blood tests and ECG/EKG if you have symptoms of a heart attack Doctors will give you medicine and do procedures to try to get more blood to the affected area of your heart. Blood Flow to the Heart Is Blocked The heart works 24 hours a day, pumping oxygen and nutrient-rich blood to the body. Blood is supplied to the heart . If a blood clot suddenly blocks a coronary artery, it cuts off most or all blood supply to the heart, and a heart attack results. If blood flow isn't restored quickly, the section of heart muscle begins to die. The good news is that excellent treatments are available for heart attacks. Prompt Treatment Is Important Heart attack treatment works best when it's given right after symptoms occur. Prompt treatment of a heart attack can help prevent or limit damage to the heart and prevent sudden death. Call 9-1-1 A heart attack is an emergency. Angina is a recurring pain or discomfort in the chest that happens when some part of the heart does not receive enough blood. An episode of angina is not a heart attack. However, people with angina may have a hard time telling the difference between angina and heart attack symptoms. Angina is chest pain or discomfort that occurs when your heart muscle does not get enough blood. The pain may also occur . Having a heart attack increases your chances of having another one. The emergency action plan should include - warning signs or symptoms of a heart attack - instructions for accessing emergency medical services in your community, including calling 9-1-1 - steps you can take while waiting for medical help to arrive, such as taking aspirin and nitroglycerin - important information to take along with you to the hospital, such as a list of medications that you take or that you are allergic to, and name and number of whom you should contact if you go to the hospital.
151	DIETARY TIPS FOR VEGETARIANS. When following a vegetarian diet, keep in mind the following: Eat different kinds of foods, including vegetables, fruits, beans, nuts, seeds, whole grains, and low-fat or fat-free dairy and eggs if your diet includes these. Choose fortified foods, such as cereals, breads, soy or almond milk, and fruits juices to get a full range of nutrients. Learn to read the Nutrition Facts Label . The label tells you the ingredients and nutrition contents of the food product. If you follow a diet, you may want to work with a dietitian to make sure you are getting enough nutrients. A vegetarian diet focuses on plants for food. These include fruits, vegetables, dried beans and peas, grains, seeds and nuts. There is no single type of vegetarian diet. Instead, vegetarian eating patterns usually fall into the following groups: The vegan diet, which excludes all meat and animal products, The lacto vegetarian diet, which includes plant foods plus dairy products, The lacto-ovo vegetarian diet, which includes both dairy products and eggs. People who follow vegetarian diets can get all the nutrients they need. However, they must be careful to eat a wide variety of foods to meet their nutritional needs. Nutrients vegetarians may need to focus on include protein, iron, calcium, zinc and vitamin B12. It is a meal plan made up of foods that come mostly from plants. These include: Vegetables Fruits Whole grains Legumes Seeds Nuts May include eggs and/or milk if ovo-lacto vegetarian A vegetarian diet contains no animal proteins. A semi-vegetarian diet is a meal plan that contains little animal protein, but mostly plant-based foods. Vegetarians DO NOT eat: Fowl Seafood Beef Pork Lamb Other animal meats, such as bison, or exotic meats like ostrich or alligator Vegetarians also do not eat products containing gelatin or rennin (an enzyme found in calf's stomachs that is used to produce many cheeses).Here are the different types of vegetarian diets: Vegan: Includes only plant-based foods. Lacto-vegetarian: Includes plant foods plus some or all dairy products. Lacto-ovo vegetarian: Includes plant foods, dairy products, and eggs. Semi- or partial vegetarian: Includes plant foods and may include chicken or fish, dairy products, and eggs.
152	Symptoms of cri-du-chat syndrome often include a characteristic high-pitched, mewing cry that sounds like a kitten crying. This cry may be heard immediately after birth, lasts several weeks, and then disappears. However, not all affected newborns have this distinct cry. An infant with this syndrome may have a low birth weight and a small head with many abnormal features, including a round face, small jaw, wide nose, widely separated eyes, crossed eyes (strabismus), and abnormally shaped ears set low in the head. Often the infant seems limp. Webbed fingers and toes (syndactyly) and heart defects are common. There are significant limitations in development. Many children with cri du chat syndrome survive but have substantial disabilities. Cri du chat syndrome is rare. It is caused by a missing piece of chromosome. Most cases are believed to occur during the development of the egg or sperm. A small number of cases occur when a parent passes a different, rearranged form of the chromosome . Most cases of cri-du-chat syndrome are not inherited. The deletion occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder . About 10 percent of people with cri-du-chat syndrome inherit the chromosome abnormality . , the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed . Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement . Individuals with cri-du-chat syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the short arm , which results in the intellectual disability and health problems characteristic of this disorder.
153	Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia is a rare blood cell cancer characterized by an excess of abnormal white blood cells called lymphoplasmacytic cells in the bone marrow. These individuals are diagnosed with smoldering (or asymptomatic) Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia. Individuals with symptomatic Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia can experience general symptoms such as fever, night sweats, and weight loss. Several other signs and symptoms of the condition are related to the excess IgM, which can thicken blood and impair circulation, causing a condition known . Blood tests Additional laboratory tests Blood tests are done when macroglobulinemia is suspected. MYD88. , commonly occur among patients with macroglobulinemia. A bone marrow biopsy may reveal an increased number of lymphocytes and plasma cells, which helps confirm the diagnosis of macroglobulinemia, and the appearance of these cells helps differentiate this disorder . Symptoms may include any of the following. Another gene commonly associated with Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia, CXCR4, is mutated in approximately 30 percent of affected individuals (most of whom also have the MYD88 gene mutation). Other genetic changes believed to be involved in Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia have not yet been identified. The mutations that cause Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in the abnormal blood cells. Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is a chronic, slow-growing lymphoproliferative disorder. It usually affects older adults and is primarily found in the bone marrow, although lymph nodes and the spleen may be involved. Treatment is often reserved and may include various medications including corticosteroids , alkylating agents, biologic response modifiers and purine analogues. , doctors may decide to "watch and wait" and not treat the disease . There are also several new drugs and drug combinations that are being studied . information about the specific medications used to treat Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia can be viewed on Medscape Reference's Web site. Many people who have macroglobulinemia have no symptoms, and the disorder is discovered by chance when an elevated level of blood proteins is found . Other people have symptoms resulting to the skin, fingers, toes, nose, and brain that occurs when the large quantity of macroglobulins thickens the blood (hyperviscosity syndrome). These symptoms include bleeding from the skin and mucous membranes (such as the lining of the mouth, nose, and digestive tract), fatigue, weakness, headache, confusion, dizziness, and even coma. People who have macroglobulinemia may also have swollen lymph nodes and an enlarged liver and spleen due to infiltration by cancerous plasma cells. These disorders include cancers such as macroglobulinemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus), and infections .
155	There are two types: wet and dry. Wet AMD happens when abnormal blood vessels grow under the macula. Wet AMD damages the macula quickly. Dry AMD happens when the light-sensitive cells in the macula slowly break down. AMD is caused by damage to the blood vessels that supply the macula. There are two types of AMD: Dry AMD occurs when the blood vessels under the macula become . Wet AMD occurs in about 10% of people with macular degeneration. Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is an eye disease that causes the macula to lose its normal structure (called degeneration). AMD is . Certain vitamins may help slow vision loss . First you get: Dry AMD, in which cells in the macula die slowly and cause a steady loss of vision. After you have had dry AMD for a while, you might get: Wet AMD, in which new abnormal blood vessels grow under the damaged macula and leak blood, causing faster vision loss Viewing the Retina. Specifically, age-related macular degeneration affects a small area near the center of the retina, called the macula, which is responsible for central vision. The stage of dry age-related macular degeneration is known of the macula waste away (atrophy), resulting in severe vision loss. Dry age-related macular degeneration typically affects vision , although vision loss often occurs . In 10 to 15 percent , the dry form progresses to the wet form of age-related macular degeneration. The wet form of age-related macular degeneration is associated with severe vision loss that can worsen rapidly. Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a disease characterized by deterioration or breakdown of the macula, which is responsible for sharp, central vision. These new and abnormal blood vessels leak fluid into the macula and cause macular edema.
158	Stool that comes from your ileostomy is liquid, or it may be pasty. It is not . Foods you eat, medicines you take, and other things may change how your stool is. If you believe a certain food has caused a change in your stools, do not eat it for a while, and then try again. Call your provider if: You have a discharge from the stoma that smells bad.
160	Insulin is needed to move blood sugar (glucose) into cells. Diabetes is a disease caused by high levels of blood sugar (glucose) in your body. , this extra glucose can lead to prediabetes or diabetes. Genetic testing can show what types of HLA genes a person carries and can reveal other genes linked to diabetes. People with diabetes have high blood sugar because their body cannot move sugar from the blood into muscle and fat cells to be burned or stored for energy, and/or because their liver makes glucose and releases it into the blood. This is because either: Their pancreas does not make enough insulin Their cells do not respond to insulin normally Both of the above There are two major types of diabetes. There are other causes of diabetes, and some people cannot be classified as type 1 or type 2. Gestational diabetes is high blood sugar that develops in a woman who does not already have diabetes. If your parent, brother, or sister has diabetes, you may be more likely to develop the disease. Researchers are working to identify additional gene variants and to learn how they interact and with environmental factors to cause diabetes. But when insulin production falters because of beta cell dysfunction, glucose levels rise, leading to prediabetes or diabetes. Abnormal Glucose Production by the Liver In some people with diabetes, an abnormal increase in glucose production by the liver also contributes to high blood glucose levels. And the more you smoke the higher your risk for type 2 diabetes and other serious health problems if you already have diabetes. Quitting smoking can also help you control your blood sugar levels. Being a healthy weight and not smoking can help all women be healthier. But, obesity and smoking do not always cause diabetes. Some women who are or smoke never develop diabetes. Also, women who are a normal weight or only slightly overweight can develop diabetes if they have other risk factors, such as a family history of diabetes. Most cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin. Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people also predispose them to diabetes.
161	More than one half of people with BL can be cured . The outlook is poor if the cancer comes back or does not go into remission as a result of the first cycle of chemotherapy. Without timely treatment, BL is rapidly fatal. However, the majority achieve long-term remission . In general, children with BL have better survival rates . The prognosis in children correlates with the extent of disease at the time of diagnosis. Those have a survival rate greater than 90%. Children , , have long-term survival rates of 50-90%. While the majority of adults with BL also achieve long-term remission , adults (particularly those ) do . In addition to the extent of disease at the time of diagnosis, prognosis depends on the age of the adult. Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) belongs to a group of diseases known as non-Hodgkins lymphomas (NHL). NHL's are cancers that affect the the lymphatic system (part of the immune system ). In MCL, there are cancerous B-cells (a type of immune system cell). The cancerous B-cells are within a region of the lymph node known as the mantle zone. Although MCLs are slow-growing cancers, the cancer is usually widespread by the time it is diagnosed. , treatment must be intensive since MCL can become life threatening . MCL accounts for 6% of all NHL's and is mostly found in males . Low-grade NHL often cannot be cured alone. Low-grade NHL progresses slowly and may take many years before the disease gets worse or even requires treatment. The need for treatment is usually determined , the disease is progressing, and if blood counts are low. Chemotherapy may cure many types of high-grade lymphomas. If the cancer does not respond to chemotherapy, the disease can cause rapid death. Follicular lymphoma is located primarily in the lymph nodes , but can also involve the spleen, bone marrow, peripheral blood and Waldeyer's ring. Differential diagnosis Differential diagnoses include chronic lymphocytic B cell leukemia, diffuse large B cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma and MALT lymphoma (see these terms). Management and treatment If the lymphoma is localized it should be treated . In the case of advanced stage lymphoma, chemotherapy with immuno-chemotherapy should be offered ().
165	Your provider will examine you and carefully check your elbow. You will be asked about your medical history and symptoms ? Does the pain shift from the elbow ? Is the pain prominence of the elbow? Did the pain begin ? Did the pain begin and then get worse? Is the pain getting ? Did the pain begin ? What makes the pain ? Is there pain that goes from the elbow down ? Treatment depends , but may involve: Antibiotics Corticosteroid shots Manipulation Pain medicine Physical therapy Surgery (last resort). Gently try to move the elbow and increase your range . If this hurts or you cannot move the elbow, call your health care provider. Call your provider if: You have a prolonged case of tendinitis that doesn't improve with home care. The pain is . There is obvious deformity. You can't use the elbow. You have fever or swelling and redness of your elbow. Your elbow is locked and can't straighten or bend. A child has elbow pain. Elbow pain can be caused . As a result, the child will usually quietly refuse to use the arm, but often cries out when they try to bend or straighten the elbow. This condition is also called an elbow subluxation (a partial dislocation). Your health care provider will likely instruct you to follow RICE to help reduce pain and swelling: Rest your elbow. Avoid lifting anything with your arm and elbow. Don't move the elbow unless you're instructed to do so. Ice your elbow . Elevate your elbow by raising it above the level of your heart. You can prop it up with pillows. You can take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce pain and swelling.
166	Diagnosis of dry eye requires a comprehensive eye evaluation. for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye. for use as a protectant against further irritation or dryness of the eye. Clear Eyes Pure Relief? for DRY EYES Glycerin / Lubricant Eye Drops 0.34 FL OZ (10 mL) Murine Tears For DRY EYES Lubricant Eye Drops Original Natural Tears Formula ? Moisture Enriched ? Eye Doctor Recommended 0.5 fl oz. (15 mL)
169	There are a number of less common causes. Less common causes include: A hernia in the groin (inguinal hernia), Infection of the testis (orchitis), usually caused by mumps or another virus, Pain from a disorder in the abdomen (such as a kidney stone or appendicitis), Injury Dangerous disorders that sometimes cause scrotal pain include a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm and necrotizing infection of the perineumthe area between the genitals and anuscalled Fournier gangrene. Cancer of a testis only rarely causes pain. Testicular torsion causes: Severe pain and sometimes in the belly area Sudden swelling of the testicle Feeling sick and throwing up Fever Needing to urinate often.
170	Angelman syndrome is a complex genetic disorder that primarily affects the nervous system. Characteristic features include delayed development, intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, and problems with movement and balance (ataxia). Delayed development becomes noticeable by the age , and other common signs and symptoms usually appear . With age, people with Angelman syndrome become , and the sleeping problems tend to improve. However, affected individuals continue to have intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, and seizures . Adults with Angelman syndrome have distinctive facial features that may be described as "coarse." Other common features include unusually fair skin with light-colored hair and an abnormal side-to-side curvature (scoliosis). Most individuals with Angelman syndrome will have severe developmental delays, speech limitations, and motor difficulties. However, individuals with Angelman syndrome can have normal life spans and generally do not show developmental regression as they age. Several different genetic mechanisms can inactivate or delete the maternal copy . Rarely, Angelman syndrome can also be caused by a chromosomal rearrangement called a translocation, or . UBE3A or other genes on the maternal copy of chromosome 15.The causes of Angelman syndrome are . In some people who have Angelman syndrome, the loss is associated with light-colored hair and fair skin. The OCA2 gene is located . However, loss does not cause the other signs and symptoms of Angelman syndrome. There is no cure for Angelman syndrome. Treatment helps to manage health and development problems caused by the condition. Anticonvulsant medicines help control seizures Behavior therapy helps manage hyperactivity, sleep problems, and development problems Occupational and speech therapy manage speech problems and teach living skills Physical therapy helps with walking and movement problems. Angelman syndrome (AS) is a genetic condition that causes problems with the way a child's body and brain develop. The syndrome is present (congenital). This is when development problems are first noticed .
174	Crusted scabies (also called Norwegian scabies) is an infestation characterized . It is a severe form of scabies that occurs . The symptoms , such as itching and a rash, may be absent. Crusted scabies is and can spread both by direct skin-to-skin contact and through contaminated items such as clothing, bedding, and furniture. It is caused . People with crusted scabies should receive quick and aggressive medical treatment for their infestation to prevent future outbreaks of scabies. Ivermectin, a drug used to treat parasitic infections, is commonly used for treatment. Crusted scabies may be particularly difficult to treat. Patients with crusted scabies may be instructed to remove scaling skin so that topical medications can penetrate the skin . Repeated applications of a topical medication or combined treatment with a topical and an oral medication for several weeks or longer may be necessary. Patients who still have signs of infection may need additional treatment. Infants and pregnant women should be treated for scabies only if the benefit is determined to outweigh the risk and if the diagnosis is confirmed . A dermatologist or infectious disease physician should be involved in the care of the patient and those . Treatment of crusted scabies should be done , with the patient in a private room. Scabies is an itchy skin condition caused . Scabies spreads quickly in crowded conditions where there is frequent skin-to-skin contact . Hospitals, child-care centers, and nursing homes are examples. Scabies can easily infect sex partners and other household members. Sharing clothes, towels, and bedding can sometimes spread scabies. This can happen when the infested person has crusted scabies. You cannot get scabies . Pets get a different mite infection called mange. Scabies is an itchy rash. The mites get and lay eggs. Doctors treat scabies with a medicated cream.
175	If there's a health problem causing your hair loss, doctors treat that problem. They also treat hair loss with: Medicine for male and female pattern baldness, which can take 8 to 12 months to work Hair transplants to move hair follicles to your bald area Wigs. Summary. You lose up . That's normal, and , those hairs grow back. But many men -- and some women -- lose hair as they grow older. You can also lose your hair if you have certain diseases, . If you take certain medicines or have chemotherapy for cancer, you may also lose your hair. Other causes are stress, a low protein diet, a family history, or poor nutrition. Treatment for hair loss depends on the cause. In some cases, treating the underlying cause will correct the problem. Other treatments include medicines and hair restoration. Wigs often offer the best treatment for temporary hair loss (for example, that caused by chemotherapy). People undergoing chemotherapy should consult a wig maker even before therapy begins so that an appropriate wig can be ready when needed. When hair regrows, it may be from the original hair.
176	No treatment can reverse the damage caused by retinitis pigmentosa. Vitamin A palmitate may help slow the progression of the disorder in some people. Supplements with an omega-3 fatty acid (for example, docosahexaenoic acid) and a combination of lutein plus zeaxanthin may also slow the rate of vision loss. People who have swelling of the retina (macular edema), drugs called carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (usually acetazolamide or dorzolamide) are given by mouth or as eye drops. A new gene-therapy drug called voretigene neparovovec-ryzl may restore some vision to people with a particular mutation, provided they still have some retinal cells capable of surviving and reproducing. People who have lost all vision or almost all vision can be given a surgically implanted computer chip in the eye, which can restore some perception of light and shapes. Available treatments aim to slow the progression of the disease and primarily include light avoidance and the use of low-vision aids. However, taking too much vitamin A can be toxic and the effects of vitamin A on the disease appear to be relatively weak. Studies have explored potential treatment with DHA, an omega-3 fatty acid naturally found in fish. While DHA is known to play a structural role in retinal cells , more research is needed to determine whether supplements should be recommended. Current research is focused on the development of new treatments including gene therapy , retinal transplantation, and the use of a retinal prosthesis. Stem cell transplantation would involve the injection and integration of stem cells into the retina, in hopes these cells will replace dead cells and provide the missing enzymes and chemicals needed for sight. Gene therapy could potentially be used when the disease-causing mutation is known and would aim to restore production of the protein . Studies with retinal prosthetics have tested devices that transform light into electrical signals that can be sent directly to the inner retina and brain, avoiding the diseased part of the outer retina. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited eye diseases that affect the light-sensitive part of the eye (retina). RP causes cells in the retina to die, causing progressive vision loss. The first sign of RP usually is night blindness. As the condition progresses, affected individuals develop tunnel vision (loss of peripheral vision), and eventually loss of central vision. RP may be caused by mutations in any of 50 genes . Inheritance can be autosomal dominant , autosomal recessive , or X-linked . Treatment options to slow the progression of vision loss include light avoidance, use of low-vision aids, and vitamin A supplementation. Researchers are working to develop new treatment options for the future such as gene therapy , stem cell transplantation and prosthetic implants. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of rare, genetic disorders that involve a breakdown and loss of cells in the retina which is the light sensitive tissue that lines the back of the eye.
178	Leg pain can be due to a muscle cramp (also called a charley horse). Common causes of cramps include: Dehydration or low amounts of potassium, sodium, calcium, or magnesium in the blood Medicines (such as diuretics and statins) Muscle fatigue or strain from overuse, too much exercise, or holding a muscle in the same position for a long time An injury can also cause leg pain from: A muscle (strain) Hairline crack in the bone (stress fracture) Inflamed tendon (tendinitis) Shin splints (pain in the front of the leg ). Other common causes of leg pain include: Peripheral artery disease (PAD), which causes a problem with blood flow in the legs (this type of pain, called claudication, is generally felt when exercising or walking and is relieved ) Blood clot (deep vein thrombosis) from long-term bed rest Infection of the bone (osteomyelitis) or skin and soft tissue (cellulitis), Inflammation of the leg joints caused , Nerve damage common to people with diabetes, smokers, and alcoholics, Varicose veins. Less common causes include: Cancerous bone tumors (osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma), Legg-Calve-Perthes disease: Poor blood flow to the hip that may stop or slow the normal growth of the leg, Noncancerous (benign) tumors or cysts of the femur or tibia (osteoid osteoma), Sciatic nerve pain (radiating pain down the leg) caused by a slipped disk in the back. If you have a muscle cramp, stop your activity and try stretching and massaging the muscle. Heat will relax the muscle when the spasm begins, but ice may be helpful when the pain has improved. If the muscle is still sore, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications can help with pain. If the muscle cramps are severe, your health care provider can prescribe other medicines. The most common cause of muscle cramps is not getting enough fluids. Often, drinking water will ease the cramping. Other tips for relieving muscle cramps. Some disorders cause symptoms that resemble muscle cramps. Dystonias. are involuntary muscle contractions, but they usually . In contrast, benign leg cramps and exercise-associated muscle cramping tend to affect the calf muscles. Tetany. The muscles may also twitch. Illusory muscle cramps. These people feel as if they are having cramps but no muscle contraction occurs. Hardening of the arteries in the legs. This pain is due to inadequate blood flow to muscles, not to muscle contraction as occurs with cramps. Leg cramps are common. The most common causes are benign leg cramps and exercise-associated cramping. Stretching and not consuming caffeine can help prevent muscle cramps. Drug therapy is not usually recommended to prevent muscle cramps.
180	How severe is your pain? How often do you have pain and how long does it last? How often do you have diarrhea? Have you been traveling? Have you been taking antibiotics recently? Your provider may recommend a flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. , a flexible tube is inserted to examine the colon. Other studies that can identify colitis include: CT scan of the abdomen MRI of the abdomen Barium enema Stool culture Stool examination for ova and parasites. Colitis is swelling (inflammation) of the large intestine (colon). A physical exam may help diagnose ulcerative colitis. A health care provider may order lab tests to help diagnose ulcerative colitis, including blood and stool tests. Once the scope reaches the end of the sigmoid colon, the health care provider slowly withdraws it while examining the lining of the colon and rectum again. If the health care provider suspects ulcerative colitis, he or she will biopsy the patient's colon and rectum. To make the diagnosis of hemorrhagic colitis, a doctor has stool specimens tested for strains of . E. coli. or the toxins they produce. If not controlled, it can be cured by surgically removing the colon. Computed tomography (CT) or sometimes colonoscopy A doctor may suspect ischemic colitis on the basis of the symptoms of pain and bleeding, especially . It is important for doctors to distinguish ischemic colitis from acute mesenteric ischemia, a condition blood flow to part of the intestine is completely and irreversibly blocked. Doctors usually do CT or sometimes also colonoscopy (examination of the large intestine with a flexible viewing tube) to distinguish ischemic colitis from other forms of inflammation, such as infection or inflammatory bowel disease. People with ulcerative colitis should talk about how often they should get screened for colon cancer. Screening can include colonoscopy with biopsies or a special chromoendoscopy. Health care providers may recommend colonoscopy with ulcerative colitis who havethe disease in one-third or more or of their colon had ulcerative colitis . Such screening does not reduce a person's chances of developing colon cancer. Instead, screening can help diagnose cancer early and improve chances for recovery. Surgery to remove the entire colon eliminates the risk of colon cancer.
181	The eustachian tube runs from the middle part of each ear to the back of the throat. This tube drains fluid that is made in the middle ear. This may lead to pressure behind the eardrum or an ear infection. Ear pain in adults is less likely to be from an ear infection. Pain that you feel in the ear may be coming from another place, such as your teeth, the joint (temporomandibular joint), or your throat. This is called "referred" pain. Causes of ear pain may include: Arthritis of the jaw Short-term ear infection, Long-term ear infection Ear injury from pressure changes (from high altitudes and other causes), Object stuck in the ear or buildup of ear wax, Hole in the eardrum, Sinus infection, Sore throat, Temporomandibular joint syndrome (TMJ), Tooth infection, Ear pain in a child or infant may be due to infection. Other causes may include: Ear canal irritation from cotton-tipped swabs Soap or shampoo staying in the ear. The pain may feel , like a tight band or vice. Your shoulders, neck, or jaw may feel tight or sore. A migraine headache involves severe pain. It usually occurs . The headache usually lasts less than an hour. It tends to occur at the same times every day. Sinus headache causes pain in the front of the head and face. It is due to swelling in the sinus passages behind the cheeks, nose, and eyes. The pain is worse when you bend forward and when you first wake up in the morning. An earache is a sharp, dull, or burning pain in one or both ears. The pain may last a short time or be ongoing. Related conditions include: Otitis media Swimmer's ear Malignant otitis externa.
182	You may need this procedure if you have damage to the cartilage: In the knee joint, . This will help prevent knee arthritis. It can help you delay the need for a knee replacement. This procedure is also used to treat knee pain . Some knee problems, such as those resulting , can't be prevented. However, people can prevent many knee problems : Before exercising or participating , warm up , then do stretches. Obesity increases the risk of osteoarthritis of the knee. Being overweight puts you . Overusing your knee can trigger knee problems that cause pain. If you have a history of arthritis, it could also cause knee pain. Here are some common causes of knee pain: MEDICAL CONDITIONS Arthritis. A fluid-filled swelling behind the knee that may occur with swelling (inflammation) from other causes, like arthritis. Other areas of research involve trying to understand better joint injuries occur and the measures that should be taken to prevent them, investigating the role of exercise in protecting the knee, and developing less invasive surgeries and better joint prostheses. Holding the Knee Together The collateral ligaments, one on either side of the knee, prevent the knee . The cruciate ligaments inside the joint prevent the knee or backward . Rheumatoid arthritis is another type of arthritis that affects the knee. In rheumatoid arthritis, your knee becomes inflamed and cartilage may be destroyed. Simple causes of knee pain often while you take steps to manage your symptoms. If knee pain is caused , you should contact your health care provider. If your knee pain has just started and is not severe, you can: Rest and avoid activities that cause pain.
183	Bartholin abscess is the buildup of pus that forms a lump (swelling) in one of the Bartholin glands. These glands are found on each side of the vaginal opening. A Bartholin abscess forms when a small opening (duct) from the gland gets blocked. Fluid in the gland builds up and may become infected. Fluid may build up before an abscess occurs. Often the abscess appears quickly over several days. SELF-CARE STEPS. It can also help the abscess open and drain on its own. However, the opening is often and closes quickly. Therefore, the abscess often returns. DRAINAGE OF THE ABSCESS. A small surgical cut can completely drain the abscess. This relieves symptoms and provides the fastest recovery. The chance of a full recovery is excellent. The abscesses may return . It is important to treat any vaginal infection that is diagnosed at the same time as the abscess. The problem rarely goes away on its own. Antibiotics alone usually cannot treat an abscess. Treatment involves surgery to open and drain the abscess. Drained abscesses are usually left open and no stitches are needed.
184	Gastrostomy feeding tube (G-tube) insertion is done using a procedure called endoscopy. This is a way of looking inside the body using a flexible tube . The endoscope is inserted through the mouth and down the esophagus, which leads to the stomach. After the endoscopy tube is inserted, the skin over the left side of belly (abdomen) area is cleaned and numbed. The doctor makes a small surgical cut . The G-tube is inserted into the stomach. The tube is . The doctor uses stitches to close the stomach around the tube. Wash with cool water and soap. Clean as close to the stitches as you can. Do not wash or rub the stitches directly. Dab the site dry with a clean paper towel. Do not rub the area. Avoid using the towel directly on the stitches. If there was a bandage over the stitches, replace it , if instructed to do so. Your provider should also tell you when you need to have a wound checked and the stitches removed. If not, contact your provider . A gastrostomy feeding tube insertion is the placement of a feeding tube through the skin and the stomach wall. It goes directly into the stomach.
185	Trigeminal neuralgia (TN), also called tic douloureux, is a chronic pain condition that causes extreme, sporadic, sudden burning or shock-like face pain. The painseldomlasts more than a few seconds or a minute or twoper episode. The intensity of pain can be . TN pain is typically felt on one side of the jaw or cheek. There is some evidence that the disorder runs in families, perhaps because of an inherited pattern of blood vessel formation. The presumed cause of TN is a blood vessel pressing on the trigeminal nerve in the head as it exits the brainstem. TN may be part of the normal aging process but in some cases it is the associated with another disorder, such as multiple sclerosis or other disorders characterized by damage sheath that covers certain nerves. Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a type . It usually affects one side of the face. Any vibration , can set it off. TN usually affects people . The cause is probably a blood vessel pressing on the trigeminal nerve, one of the largest nerves in the head. Tumors and multiple sclerosis can also cause TN, but in some cases the cause is unknown. There is no single test to diagnose TN. It can be , since many other conditions can cause facial pain. The pain of TN comes from the trigeminal nerve. This nerve carries the sensations of touch and pain from the face, eyes, sinuses, and mouth . Trigeminal neuralgia may be caused by: Multiple sclerosis (MS) or other diseases that damage the protective covering myelin of the nerves Pressure on the trigeminal nerve from a swollen blood vessel or tumor Injury to the trigeminal nerve, such as from trauma to the face or from oral or sinus surgery Often, no exact cause is found. TN usually affects adults 50 years, but it can occur . When TN affects people younger , it is often due to MS or a tumor.
188	Experts recommend that people eat a balanced diet to obtain most nutrients. More information about diet and nutrition can be found . Dietary Supplements Iodine is an essential mineral for the thyroid. However, people with autoimmune thyroid disease may be . Taking iodine drops or eating foods containing large amounts of iodinesuch cause or worsen hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. More information about iodine can be found in the National Library of Medicine fact sheet Iodine in diet, .htm. Women need more iodine when they are a day because the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins.3 Choosing iodized salt salt supplemented containing iodine will ensure this need is met. To help ensure care, people should discuss their use of dietary supplements, , . Doctors treat hypothyroidism with: Thyroid hormone pills After you start the pills, your doctor will gradually adjust the dose based on your TSH level. It's important to talk to your doctor about medicines that interfere with absorbing thyroid hormone. Myxedema coma is a life-threatening complication in which breathing slows, seizures occur, and blood flow to the brain decreases. Myxedema coma can be triggered in a person with hypothyroidism , such as exposure to the cold, as well as . Spotlight : Hypothyroidism in Older People Many older people have some degree of hypothyroidism. About 10% of women and 6% of men are affected. Typical symptoms, , are . Older people may also have less typical symptoms. Because symptoms in older people can be different, are often , and are common among older people who do not have hypothyroidism, doctors may not recognize these symptoms as being caused by hypothyroidism. A screening test, in which blood levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone are measured, is important. The test should be done even if people have no symptoms of hypothyroidism.
190	There are three types of Usher syndrome: People are and have severe balance problems . Usher syndrome is the most common condition that affects both hearing and vision. The major symptoms of Usher syndrome are hearing loss and an retinitis pigmentosa, or RP. Photograph of the retina of a patient with Usher syndrome (left) compared to a normal retina (right). Usher syndrome is a condition characterized by hearing loss or deafness and progressive vision loss. This type of Usher syndrome also includes problems with the inner ear that affect balance. The hearing loss associated with this form of Usher syndrome ranges to severe and mainly affects high tones. Type 1 Usher syndrome: MY , USH1C, CDH23, PCHD15, SANS. Type 2 Usher syndrome: USH2A, VLGR1, WHRN. Type 3 Usher syndrome: USH3A With so many possible genes involved in Usher syndrome, genetic tests for the disorder are not conducted . Diagnosis of Usher syndrome is usually performed through hearing, balance, and vision tests. Usher syndrome is inherited, which means that it is passed through genes. If both parents are carriers of a mutated gene for Usher syndrome, they will have a one-in-four chance of having a child with Usher syndrome . Usually, parents who have normal hearing and vision do not know if they are carriers of an Usher syndrome gene mutation. Currently, it is not possible to determine whether an individual who does not have a family history of Usher syndrome is a carrier. Because Usher syndrome affects hearing, balance, and vision, diagnosis of the disorder usually includes the evaluation . Early diagnosis of Usher syndrome is very important. The earlier that parents know if their child has Usher syndrome, the sooner that child can begin special educational training programs to manage the loss of hearing and vision. If a child is diagnosed with type 1 Usher syndrome early on, before he or she loses the ability to see, that child is more likely to benefit from the full spectrum of intervention strategies that can help him or her participate . Type 2: Children with type 2 Usher syndrome are born to severe hearing loss and normal balance.
191	Junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB) is one of the major forms of epidermolysis bullosa, a group of genetic conditions that cause the skin to be and to blister easily. Blisters and skin erosions form . Researchers classify junctional epidermolysis bullosa . Although the types differ , their features overlap significantly, and they can be caused . Other complications can include fusion of the fingers and toes, abnormalities of the fingernails and toenails, joint deformities (contractures) that restrict movement, and hair loss (alopecia). Because the signs and symptoms are , infants usually do not survive . The milder form of junctional epidermolysis bullosa is called non-Herlitz JEB. The blistering associated may be limited to the hands, feet, knees, and elbows, and it often improves . Other characteristic features include alopecia, malformed fingernails and toenails, and irregular tooth enamel. Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is a group . It is passed down . Your provider will let you know if you need a bandage or dressing, and if so, what type to use. You may need to use oral steroid medicines if you have swallowing problems. You may also need to take medicine if you get a candida (yeast) infection . Take good care of your oral health and get regular dental check-ups. It is best to see a dentist who has experience treating people with EB. Eat a healthy diet. When you have a lot of skin injury, you may need extra calories and protein to help your skin heal. Do exercises a physical therapist shows you to help keep your joints and muscles mobile. SURGERY. Surgery to treat this condition may include: Skin grafting where sores are deep Dilation (widening) of the esophagus if there is a narrowing Repair of hand deformities Removal of any squamous cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) that develops OTHER TREATMENTS. Other treatments may include: Medicines that suppress the immune system may be used .
192	Your doctor will talk to you to treat your arthritis, . Possible treatments include: Medications . Creams or ointments that are rubbed into the skin over sore muscles or joints to relieve pain. Medications that may slow the course of the disease and prevent further damage to joints or other parts of the body. Surgery, such . Doctors who diagnose and treat arthritis and other rheumatic disease include: General practitioners, . Rheumatologists, who specialize in arthritis and other diseases of the bones, joints, and muscles. Orthopaedists, who specialize in treatment and surgery for bone and joint diseases. Physical therapists, who help improve joint function. Occupational therapists, who teach ways to protect joints, minimize pain, perform activities , and conserve energy. Dietitians, who teach and maintaining a healthy weight. Nurse educators, who help you understand your condition and help start treatment plans. Rehabilitation specialists, who help you make the most of your physical potential. Licensed acupuncture therapists, who reduce pain and improve physical functioning . Chiropractors, who focus treatment on the relationship between the body's structuremainly the spineand its functioning. Massage therapists, who press, rub, and otherwise manipulate the muscles and other soft tissues of the body. doctors recommend treatments that: Reduce swelling. Maintain full movement in the affected joints. Relieve pain. Prevent, identify, and treat complications. Many adults seek alternative ways of treating arthritis, such as special diets, supplements, acupuncture, massage, or even magnetic jewelry or mattress pads. Although there is little research to support many alternative treatments, some people seem to benefit . Side effects of acupuncture are usually , but the following should be noted: Temporary worsening of symptoms may occur.
194	In more severe cases, treatment should be started and may include: A brace to try to keep the spine straight, Physical therapy to keep scoliosis , Surgery to join backbones together. Your child may feel badly or be upset about the treatment. a person with scoliosis does depends on the type, cause, and severity of the curve. Back pain may be more likely when the person gets older. Congenital scoliosis is difficult to treat and usually requires many surgeries. Likewise, the more symptoms that develop, the greater the likelihood that scoliosis will worsen. Worsening scoliosis may eventually cause permanent problems, such as noticeable deformities or chronic pain. Severe scoliosis may even affect internal organsfor example, deforming and damaging the lungs. Sometimes scoliosis can worsen even if symptoms have not developed. , the curvature does not progress further remains small. Scoliosis that causes symptoms, is worsening, or is severe may need to be treated. Scoliosis causes a sideways curve , or spine. Scoliosis is , when children grow fast. Doctors use your history, a physical exam, and imaging tests to diagnose scoliosis. People with mild scoliosis might only need checkups to see if the curve is getting worse. Mild scoliosis usually has no symptoms. But sometimes children have: than the other than the other causing an uneven waist Mild to severe back pain Severe scoliosis can cause: Constant pain Difficulty breathing, if the rib cage presses on the lungs Damage . Mild or more severe pain may eventually follow. Mild scoliosis may be discovered during a routine physical examination. Treatment depends on many things: The cause of scoliosis, Where the curve is , How big the curve is, If your body is still growing. Scoliosis treatment may also include: Emotional support: Some children, especially teens, may be self-conscious when using a back brace.
195	Arthritis is inflammation . A joint is the area where two bones meet. There are over 1 different types of arthritis. Psoriatic Arthritis can occur (scaly red and white skin patches). It affects the skin, joints, and areas where tissues attach . Reactive Arthritis is pain or swelling . You may also have red, swollen eyes and a swollen urinary tract. Rheumatoid arthritis happens when the bodys own defense system doesnt work properly. It affects joints and bones (often of the hands and feet), and may also affect internal organs and systems.
197	Many diseases can cause malabsorption. , malabsorption involves problems absorbing certain sugars, fats, proteins, or vitamins. Problems or damage to the small intestine that may lead . These include: Celiac disease, Tropical sprue, Crohn disease, Whipple disease, Damage from radiation treatments, Overgrowth of bacteria in the small bowel, Parasite or tapeworm infection, Surgery that removes all or part of the small intestine, Enzymes produced by the pancreas help absorb fats and other nutrients. A decrease of these enzymes makes it harder to absorb fats and certain nutrients. Problems with the pancreas may be caused to remove part . Some of the other causes of malabsorption include: AIDS and HIV Certain medicines (tetracycline, some antacids, some medicines used to treat obesity, colchicine, acarbose, phenytoin, cholestyramine), Gastrectomy and surgical treatments for obesity Cholestasis Chronic liver disease Cow's milk protein intolerance Soy milk protein intolerance. Some malabsorption diseases have specific treatments. For example, tropical sprue and Whipple disease are treated with antibiotics. You may need to take extra vitamins and nutrients. Mal means bad. So malabsorption means bad absorption. A problem somewhere in your gastrointestinal (GI) tract keeps you . Malabsorption can be caused by diseases, surgery on your intestines, or intestinal infections You'll usually lose weight and have diarrhea and smelly stool (poop) After a while, you may get vitamin deficiencies, which may give you a low blood count and feel make you feel sick Doctors often have to do stool and blood tests and sometimes look in your stomach and intestines with a flexible scope (endoscopy) Different causes of malabsorption need different treatments, but doctors usually try to adjust your diet to relieve your symptoms. Malabsorption involves problems with the body's ability to take in nutrients from food. Treatment depends on the cause and is aimed . If the body is not able to absorb enough nutrients, total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is tried. Your provider will select the right amount of calories and TPN solution. Sometimes, you can also eat and drink .
202	The outcome is if you have surgery to repair the aneurysm before it ruptures. When an abdominal aortic aneurysm begins to tear or ruptures, it is a medical emergency. Only about 1 in 5 people survive a ruptured abdominal aneurysm. An abdominal aortic aneurysm occurs when an area of the aorta becomes or balloons out. Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) are aneurysms that occur in the part of the aorta that passes . They may occur , but are . Many people with an AAA have no symptoms, but some people have a pulsing sensation in the abdomen and/or pain in the back. If the aneurysm ruptures, it may cause deep, severe pain; nausea; vomiting; fast heart rate; clammy skin; and/or shock. About 20% of AAAs eventually rupture and are . The condition has multiple risk factors , and may sometimes occur . When more than one family member is affected, it may be considered " familial abdominal aortic aneurysm." Treatment depends on the size of the aneurysm and may include blood pressure medications, or surgery to repair the aneurysm. If you have bleeding from an aortic aneurysm, you will need surgery . If the aneurysm is small and there are no symptoms: Surgery is rarely done. Your provider may want to check the size of the aneurysm with ultrasound tests every 6 months. Most of the time, surgery is done if the aneurysm is bigger (5 centimeters) across or growing quickly. This procedure can be done , so you may recover more quickly. The exact cause of an aneurysm is unknown. Factors that can increase your risk of having this problem include: Smoking High blood pressure Male gender Genetic factors An abdominal aortic aneurysm is seen . The larger the aneurysm, it is to break open or tear. The aorta is the main blood vessel (artery) that carries blood to the rest of your body. An aneurysm is a bulge in an artery wall. An abdominal aortic aneurysm is a bulge in the part of your aorta that passes . Aneurysms may cause a pulsing feeling in your belly Aneurysms that are large or are growing need surgery to prevent them from bursting If the aneurysm bursts, blood flows out and you have severe pain and low blood pressure If the aneurysm bursts, you'll die if you don't have surgery Doctors often find an aneurysm during a regular exam or from an imaging test (such as an x-ray or CT scan) taken for another problem and found by accident You're more likely to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm if: You're a man You're between the ages of 50 and 80 Someone in your family had one You have high blood pressure You smoke.
203	Treatment for acute or chronic pancreatitis may includea hospital stay to treat dehydration with intravenous (IV) fluids and, if you can swallow them, fluids by mouth pain medicine, and antibiotics by mouth or through an IV if you have an infection in your pancreas a low-fat diet, or nutrition by feeding tube or IV if you can't eatYour doctor may send you to a gastroenterologist or surgeon for one of the following treatments, depending on the type of pancreatitis that you have. Your doctor may remove damaged tissue . Doctors use ERCP to treat both acute and chronic pancreatitis. ERCP combines upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and x-rays to treat narrowing or blockage of a bile or pancreatic duct. Your gastroenterologist may use ERCP to remove gallstones blocking the bile or pancreatic ducts. Treatment for chronic pancreatitis may help relieve pain, improve how well the pancreas works, and manage complications. Your doctor may give you enzyme pills to help with digestion, or vitamins A, D, E, and K if you have malabsorption. Pancreatitis can be acute or chronic. Acute pancreatitis occurs suddenly and usually goes away in a few days with treatment. Treatment is usually a few days in the hospital for intravenous (IV) fluids, antibiotics, and medicines to relieve pain. Chronic pancreatitis does not heal or improve. It gets and leads . The cause is heavy alcohol use. Inserting a tube through the nose or mouth to remove the contents of the stomach (nasogastric suctioning) may sometimes be done. The right diet is important for people with chronic pancreatitis to keep a healthy weight and get the correct nutrients. A nutritionist can help you create a diet that includes: Drinking plenty of liquids, Limiting fats, Eating small, frequent meals (this helps reduce digestive symptoms), Getting enough vitamins and calcium in the diet, or as extra supplements, Limiting caffeine. The health care provider may prescribe pancreatic enzymes. Avoid smoking and drinking alcoholic beverages, even if your pancreatitis is mild. Other treatments may involve: Pain medicines or a surgical nerve block to relieve pain Taking insulin to control blood sugar (glucose) level Surgery may be performed if a blockage is found. , a part of or the entire pancreas may be removed.
204	These people may benefit from taking modafinil, which is a mild stimulant used to treat daytime sleepiness in people with obstructive sleep apnea. Other drugs are also being tested for people with obstructive sleep apnea. Removable oral appliances, fitted by dentists, can help relieve obstructive sleep apnea (and snoring) in people with mild to moderate sleep apnea. It is helpful in people who have mild sleep apnea. The animation shows how the airway can collapse and block air flow to the lungs, causing sleep apnea. Central sleep apnea is a type of sleep apnea. Central sleep apnea can affect anyone. Central sleep apnea can occur with obstructive sleep apnea or alone. Snoring typically doesn't happen with central sleep apnea. Oxygen delivered by nasal prongs (not under pressure) may reduce episodes of apnea . Some people with central sleep apnea may benefit from CPAP. People with central apnea of the Cheyne-Stokes type have fewer episodes of apnea and a lower severity but do not survive longer. Acetazolamide can help people who have central sleep apnea caused and possibly even people . To treat obstructive sleep apnea, your doctor may: Give you a CPAP machine to help you breathe while you sleep Give you a mouthpiece that helps keep your airway open during sleep Sometimes do surgery on the back of your mouth to remove and reshape tissue Surgically place a device to help keep your airway open A . CPAP works , but many people aren't able to sleep well because of the mask. Apnea is a medical word for "not breathing." Sleep apnea is when your breathing slows or stops for a short time while you're sleeping and then restarts. This happens over and you sleep, . You wake up partway when your breathing stops. However, it still breaks up a good night's sleep. People with sleep apnea usually snore loudly and are very tired during the day. Doctors usually do a sleep study if they suspect sleep apnea.
205	The causes for pain in many joints usually are different than those for pain in a single joint. Pain in many joints is usually caused by: Arthritis Arthritis is joint inflammation that causes swelling, pain, and stiffness in the joints. The causes of the arthritis are different depending on whether the joints started hurting suddenly (acutely) or have been hurting for a long time (chronic).Sudden (acute) arthritis in more than one joint is most often caused by: Infection from a virus, The start of a joint disorder or a flare up of a long-term joint disorder (such as rheumatoid arthritis). Less common causes include: Lyme disease Gonorrhea Streptococcal infections Reactive arthritis Gout Chronic arthritis in more than one joint is caused by: Inflammatory disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, or systemic, lupus erythematosus Osteoarthritis, which is the most common cause in older adults, Autoimmune disorders Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (in children) .The disorders outside the joints that cause pain around the joints include: Fibromyalgia Polymyalgia rheumatica Bursitis or tendinitis. Follow your doctor's recommendation for treating the cause of the pain. For nonarthritis joint pain, both rest and exercise are important. Warm baths, massage, and stretching exercises should be used as often as possible. Aceteminophen (Tylenol) may help the soreness feel better. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen or naproxen may help relieve pain and swelling. Talk before giving aspirin or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen to children.
206	Cataract surgery is an outpatient procedure. This means you . The surgery is performed . Extracapsular extraction: The doctor uses a small tool to remove the cataract . This procedure uses a larger incision. Laser surgery: The doctor guides a machine that uses laser energy to make the incisions and soften the cataract. The rest is . Using the laser (scalpel) may speed recovery and be . The surgery lasts less than half an hour. Before you go home, you may receive the following: A patch to wear until the follow-up exam, Eyedrops to prevent infection, treat inflammation, and help with healing You will need to have someone drive you home after surgery. You will usually have a follow-up exam with your doctor the next day. If you had stitches, you will need to make an appointment to have them removed. recovering after cataract surgery: Wear dark sunglasses outside after you remove the patch. Wash your hands well . Try not to get soap and water when you are bathing or showering . Light activities are . Check with your doctor before doing any strenuous activity, resuming sexual activity, or driving. Recovery takes about 2 weeks. If you need new glasses or contact lenses, you can usually have them fitted . Most people do well and recover quickly after cataract surgery. If a person has other eye problems, , the surgery may be or the outcome may not be .
207	Other characteristic facial features include a shortened distance (a short philtrum), a downturned mouth, a small chin (micrognathia), and ears with small holes (pits) or flaps of skin (tags). Additionally, affected individuals may have asymmetrical facial features and an head (microcephaly). People with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome experience delayed growth and development. Slow growth begins before birth, and affected infants tend to have problems feeding and gaining weight (failure to thrive). They also have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) and underdeveloped muscles. Additional features of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome include skin changes such as mottled or dry skin, skeletal abnormalities such as abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis and kyphosis), dental problems including missing teeth, and an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate) and/or in the lip (cleft lip). Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome can also cause abnormalities of the eyes, heart, genitourinary tract, and brain. A condition called Pitt-Rogers-Danks syndrome has features that overlap with those of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome. Researchers now recognize that these two conditions are actually part of a single syndrome with variable signs and symptoms. Symptoms of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome often include profound intellectual disability. Children may also have epilepsy, a nose, scalp defects, drooping upper eyelids (ptosis) and gaps or fissures (colobomas) of the iris, cleft palate, and delayed bone development. Boys may have undescended testes (cryptorchidism) and a misplaced opening of the urethra (hypospadias). Some children have an immune deficiency, which means their body is . Many affected children die during infancy. The long-term outlook ( prognosis ) for people with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome (WHS) depends on the specific features present and the severity of those features. The average life expectancy is unknown. Muscle weakness may increase the risk of having chest infections and ultimately may reduce the life expectancy. Many people, in the absence of severe heart defects, chest infections, and uncontrollable seizures , survive into adulthood.
210	The FDA does not have authority over dietary supplements . The Federal Government does not regularly test what is in dietary supplements, and companies are not required to share information on the safety of a dietary supplement with the FDA before they sell it. The FDA may also take these supplements . The Federal Trade Commission looks into reports of ads that might misrepresent what dietary supplements do. A few private groups, , have their own "seals of approval" for dietary supplements. However, some people don't get enough vitamins and minerals from their daily diet, and their doctors may recommend a supplement. Dietary supplements may provide nutrients that might be missing from your daily diet. Talk with your doctor before taking any supplements. Some supplements can change how medicines you may already be taking will work. If your doctor recommends a dietary supplement , make sure you're getting the brand recommended by the doctor and that you take it . Do you wonder if you need a dietary supplement? Maybe you do, but usually not. Ask yourself why you think you might want to take a dietary supplement. Is a friend, a neighbor, or someone on a commercial suggesting you take one? Some ads for dietary supplements seem to promise that these supplements will make you feel better, keep you , or even help you . If you are thinking about using dietary supplements:- Learn. Find out about any dietary supplement you might take. Talk with your doctor, your pharmacist, or a registered dietitian. He or she needs to know if you decide to use a dietary supplement. Learn how medications can interact with dietary supplements. However, a few supplements (for example, fish oil, chondroitin, glucosamine, St. John's wort) are proven to be additions . Did You Know... Manufacturers are not required to prove that dietary supplements are safe and effective. , the only evidence suggesting effectiveness is reports . Evidence about the safety and effectiveness of dietary supplements is increasing rapidly as clinical studies are being done.
211	The shingles vaccine is a , one-time shot that may keep you from getting shingles. Most people age should get vaccinated. You should get the shot even if you have already had shingles or don't remember having chickenpox. However, if you have a weak immune system or allergies , make sure to check with your doctor first. You can get the shingles vaccine at your doctor's office and . At least 1 million people a year in the United States get shingles. Shingles vaccine A vaccine for shingles was licensed in 2 . In clinical trials, the vaccine reduced the risk of shingles by 50%. It can also reduce pain in people who still get shingles after being vaccinated. Like all vaccines, shingles vaccine is being closely monitored for unusual or severe problems. There are two shingles vaccines: a newer recombinant vaccine and an older, weakened live-virus vaccine. The recombinant vaccine is preferred and is recommended for healthy people aged 50 or over, regardless of whether they recall having had chickenpox or shingles and regardless of whether they have been vaccinated with the older shingles vaccine. The recombinant vaccine significantly reduces the chance of getting shingles and postherpetic neuralgia. Everyone who has had chickenpox has VZV and is at risk for getting shingles. , there is no way of knowing who will get the disease. The risk of getting shingles increases as you age. People may have a harder time fighting off infections as they get older. About half of all shingles cases are in adults age . The chance of getting shingles becomes by age 70. In fact, most adults live and never get shingles. But, for about one in three adults, the virus will become active again. Instead of causing another case of chickenpox, it produces shingles. Having shingles doesn't mean you have any other underlying disease.
212	Symptoms of chronic granulomatous disease usually first appear . Chronic infections occur . Pockets of pus (abscesses) can develop and in the lungs and liver. Chronic granulomatous disease is a disorder that causes the immune system to malfunction, resulting in a form of immunodeficiency. Individuals with chronic granulomatous disease may have recurrent bacterial and fungal infections. People may also have areas of inflammation (granulomas) in various tissues that can result in damage to those tissues. The features of chronic granulomatous disease usually first appear in childhood, although some individuals do not show symptoms in life. Individuals with chronic granulomatous disease may develop a type of fungal pneumonia, called mulch pneumonitis, which causes fever and shortness of breath . Exposure to these organic materials and the numerous fungi involved in their decomposition causes people with chronic granulomatous disease to develop fungal infections in their lungs. Other common areas of infection in people with chronic granulomatous disease include the skin, liver, and lymph nodes. Inflammation can occur in many different areas of the body in people with chronic granulomatous disease. Interferon gamma, Transfusions of granulocytes, Stem cell transplantation, Antibiotics, usually trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, are given to prevent infection. Antifungal drugs () are usually also given regularly to help prevent fungal infections. Interferon gamma (a drug that modifies the immune system), injected 3 times a week, can reduce the number and severity of infections. Stem cell transplantation has cured some people with chronic granulomatous disease. Close relatives who have a similar tissue and blood types are the best donors. If they are willing to donate, they can be tested to determine whether their tissue and blood types are compatible with those of the affected person. Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a rare, inherited immunodeficiency that affects certain white blood cells . People have immune systems that do not function properly, leaving the body vulnerable to chronic inflammation and frequent bacterial and fungal infections. The features usually develop ; however, milder forms may be diagnosed . It is caused by changes ( mutations ) in any one of five different genes and is usually inherited . Treatment consists of continuous therapy with antibiotic and antifungal medications to treat and prevent infections. The only cure for the disease is an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).
213	Bell palsy is sudden weakness on one side of your face. It happens when a nerve in your face (called the facial nerve) swells and gets squeezed. Bell palsy affects only one side of your face. Most people with Bell palsy get better within several months, even without treatment. But, it may take weeks or even months for the muscles to get stronger. Sometimes, medicines may be used, but it isn't known how much they help. Common medicines are: Corticosteroids, which may reduce swelling around the facial nerve, Medicines such as valacyclovir to fight the virus that may be causing Bell palsy, Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve (decompression surgery) has not been shown to benefit most people with Bell palsy. Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis which results from damage or trauma to one of the facial nerves. This disorder is characterized by the sudden onset of facial paralysis that often affects just one side and can cause significant facial distortion. Symptoms vary, but may include twitching, weakness, drooping eyelid or corner of the mouth, drooling, dry eye or mouth, impairment of taste, and excessive tearing in the eye. While the exact cause is unknown, many researchers believe that a virus may lead to swelling of the 7th cranial nerve. Other medications used to treat Bell's palsy include acyclovir (to fight viral infections) and aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen (to relieve pain). Physical therapy, facial massage and acupuncture have also been used. Bell's palsy is a disorder of the nerve that controls movement of the muscles in the face. This nerve is called the facial orseventh cranial nerve. Damage to this nerve causes weakness or paralysis of these muscles. Most people who have Bell palsy recover completely, without treatment, in several months. Some people who have severe Bell palsy and can't move one side of their face at all may not recover fully. If you've had symptoms for less than 48 hours, doctors may give you medicine called a corticosteroid that can make full recovery even more likely. If you cannot close your eye all the way, your doctor may give you eye drops or a patch to protect your eye from drying out .
215	The effectiveness of Ritalin LA for long-term use, i.e., for more than 2 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use Ritalin LA should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Before starting RITALIN tell your or your child s doctor about all health conditions (or a family history of) including: heart problems, heart defects, high blood pressure mental problems including psychosis, mania, bipolar illness, or depression tics or Tourette s syndrome seizures or have had an abnormal brain wave test (EEG) Tell your doctor if you or your child is pregnant, planning to become pregnant, or breast-feeding. Can RITALIN be taken ? Tell your doctor about all of the medicines that you or your child take . RITALIN and some medicines may interact and cause serious side effects. Sometimes the doses will need to be adjusted . RITALIN treatment may be stopped if a problem is found during these check-ups. If you or your child takes RITALIN or overdoses, call your doctor or poison control center , or get emergency treatment. What are possible side effects of RITALIN ? See What is the information I should know about RITALIN ? Ritalin should be initiated , . SR Tablets: Ritalin-SR tablets have a duration . Therefore, Ritalin-SR tablets may be used in place of Ritalin tablets when the 8-hour dosage of Ritalin-SR corresponds to the titrated 8-hour dosage of Ritalin. Ritalin-SR tablets must be swallowed . If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse effects occur, reduce dosage, or, if necessary, discontinue the drug. Ritalin should be periodically discontinued to assess the child s condition. Pharmacodynamics Ritalin is a mild central nervous system stimulant. The mode of action in man is not , but Ritalin presumably activates the brain stem arousal system and cortex to produce its stimulant effect. There is neither specific evidence which clearly establishes the mechanism whereby Ritalin produces its mental and behavioral effects in children, nor conclusive evidence regarding how these effects relate to the condition of the central nervous system. Effects on QT Interval The effect of Focalin XR (dexmethylphenidate, the d-enantiomer of Ritalin) on the QT interval was evaluated in a double-blind, placebo- and open label active (moxifloxacin)-controlled study . No gender differences were observed for Ritalin plasma concentration in the same subjects.
217	The condition causing numbness is corrected or treated when possible. Precautions to prevent injury are needed because people with numbness are less likely to feel discomfort. If hands or fingers are numb, people should be careful when handling objects that could be hot or sharp. Your health care provider should find and treat the cause of your numbness or tingling. Medicines that cause numbness or tingling may need to be switched or changed. Because numbness can cause a decrease in feeling, you may be more likely to accidentally injure a numb hand or foot. Doctors treat the problem that's causing your numbness. Doctors may suggest ways to help ease symptoms and prevent other problems: If your foot is numb, wear shoes and socks that fit well and check for pebbles or other things in your shoes before putting them on Check your numb area for sores, redness, or swelling If your hand is numb, be careful when touching things that may be hot or sharp If you have problems walking, getting physical therapy or using a cane or walker may help you walk safely and prevent falls Talk with your doctor about whether it's safe for you to drive. The pattern of body parts affected by numbness often indicates which part of the nerve pathway is malfunctioning: Part of a limb: Peripheral nerve or sometimes spinal nerve root malfunction Arm and leg on the same side of the body: Brain malfunction Both sides of the body below a specific level of the body: Spinal cord malfunction, as occurs in transverse myelitis (which causes inflammation across the entire width of the spinal cord), Both sides, mainly in the hands and feet: Simultaneous malfunction of many peripheral nerves throughout the body (a polyneuropathy), Then doctors ask about the person's other symptoms and medical history. Doctors also do a physical examination. What they find often suggests a cause and the tests that may need to be done (see table Some Causes and Features of Numbness).Doctors ask the person to describe the numbness. Then doctors may ask specific questions: When numbness began How quickly it began Whether the person also has other symptoms such as abnormal sensations, weakness or paralysis, loss of bowel or bladder control, retention of urine, vision problems, difficulty swallowing, or deterioration of mental function Whether any event, such as pressure on a limb, an injury, sleeping , or an infection, triggered the symptoms Knowing numbness and other symptoms began helps doctors determine the type of disorder. Doctors also ask whether the person has had a disorder that can cause numbness, particularly diabetes, chronic kidney disease, infections (), a stroke, or arthritis. Numbness results when one part of the pathway for sensation malfunctions, usually because of a disorder or drug. Many conditions can cause numbness . Numbness is loss of feeling in part of your body. Numbness can be a sign of a problem with your brain or your spinal cord. With numbness, you may not be able to: Feel a light touch Sense pain Tell hot vibration Know the position of the numb part of your body Along with numbness, you may also have: Tingling or a pins-and-needles feeling Weakness Paralysis (trouble moving part of your body) Numbness can cause problems with balance and coordination. Numbness, which has many causes, occurs when one part of the pathway from sensory receptors in the skin to the brain malfunctions. Numbness happens when something goes . Many different disorders and medicines can block or put pressure on this path, such as: Stroke Infection, such as Lyme disease or HIV Multiple sclerosis Diabetes Not having enough vitamin B12 in your body, Osteoarthritis that presses on the nerves coming out of the spinal cord Pressure on a nerve from repeated motions or sitting in one position too long Injury to the brain, spinal cord or nerves Some people get numbness and tingling in their hands and around their mouth when they feel anxious and breathe too fast (hyperventilation).
219	Besides bladder control training, you may want to talk with your doctor to help manage incontinence:- Medicines can help the bladder empty more fully during urination. Other drugs tighten muscles and can lessen leakage. Some women find that using an cream may help relieve stress or urge incontinence. A low dose is applied directly to the vaginal walls and urethral tissue. A doctor may inject a substance that thickens the area around the urethra to help close the bladder opening. A pessary, a stiff ring inserted , may help prevent leaking if you have a prolapsed bladder or vagina. Nerve stimulation, which sends mild electric current to the nerves around the bladder that help control urination, may be another option. Surgery can sometimes improve or cure incontinence if it's caused by a change in the position of the bladder or blockage due to an enlarged prostate. Even after treatment, some people still leak urine from time to time. Bladder control training may help you get better control of your bladder. Making these muscles stronger helps you hold urine in your bladder longer. Learn more . Biofeedback uses sensors to make you . This may help you regain control over the muscles in your bladder and urethra. Biofeedback can be helpful when learning pelvic muscle exercises. Timed voiding may help you control your bladder. In timed voiding, you urinate . You can slowly extend the time . When timed voiding is combined with biofeedback and pelvic muscle exercises, you may find it easier to control urge and overflow incontinence. Lifestyle changes may help with incontinence. Losing weight, quitting smoking, saying no to alcohol, drinking less caffeine (found ), preventing constipation and avoiding lifting heavy objects may help with incontinence. Choosing water and limiting drinks may also help.
220	Summary : Puberty is when your body changes and you develop from being a girl . Learn what changes to expect so that you feel . Expect Changes with Puberty : Know that you are going . Keep your face clean and use non-oily face cream or sunscreen. Know When Puberty Happens : Most girls go through puberty somewhere between being 8 to 15 years old. There is a wide age range when puberty starts. That is why some kids in 7th grade still look like young children and others look really grown up. You may wonder when you will get your period. Usually girls get their period after their breasts start to grow. Menstrual Periods : Each month, one releases an egg. The egg goes . Problems with puberty usually involve hormones. There are many different hormone problems that result in too few hormones so that: Puberty is delayed or doesn't start at all , there are too many hormones and the girl has: Early puberty.
226	Depending on the cause of dysarthria, symptoms may improve, stay the same, or get worse . Dysarthria caused , and may improve. Dysarthria after surgery to the tongue or voice box should not get worse, and may improve with therapy. , dysarthria may develop slowly or occur suddenly. People with dysarthria have trouble making certain sounds or words. Their speech is (such as slurring), and the rhythm or speed of their speech changes. A person with dysarthria may also drool and have problems chewing or swallowing. You may need to be referred to a speech and language therapist for testing and treatment. Special skills you may learn include: Safe chewing or swallowing techniques, if needed To avoid conversations when you are tired To repeat sounds over and over again so you can learn mouth movements To speak slowly, use a louder voice, and pause to make sure other people understand What to do when you feel frustrated while speaking You can use many different devices or techniques to help with speech, such as: Apps that use photos or speech Computers or cell phones to type out words Flip cards with words or symbols Surgery may help people with dysarthria. Things that family and friends can do to communicate better with someone who has dysarthria include: Turn off the radio or TV. Sit so that you and the person who has dysarthria can use visual cues. Stroke disability is devastating to the stroke patient and family, but therapies are . Speech therapy helps stroke patients relearn language and speaking skills, or learn other forms of communication. Speech therapy is appropriate for patients who have no problems , but have problems understanding speech or written words, or problems forming speech. People cannot articulate words normally because part of the nervous system that controls muscles used in speech is damaged. Rehabilitation goals depend on the cause of the dysarthria. If the cause is a stroke, a head injury, or brain surgery, the goal is to restore and preserve speech. If dysarthria is mild, repetition of words or sentences may enable people to relearn to use facial muscles and the tongue for correct pronunciation. If dysarthria is severe, people may be taught to use a letter or picture board or an electronic communication device with a keyboard and message display (print or screen).If dysarthria is caused by a progressive disorder of the nervous system, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS or Lou Gehrig disease) or multiple sclerosis, the goal of therapy is to maintain speech function for as long as possible. People are taught exercises that increase control of the mouth, tongue, and lips and are taught to speak more slowly and use shorter phrases.
227	Live shingles vaccine can provide protection against shingles and PHN. Another type of shingles vaccine, recombinant shingles vaccine, is the preferred vaccine. for the prevention of shingles. However, live shingles vaccine may be used in some circumstances (for example if a person is allergic to recombinant shingles vaccine or prefers live shingles vaccine, or if recombinant shingles vaccine is not available). Adults 60 years and older. who get live shingles vaccine should receive 1 dose, administered by injection. Shingles vaccine may be given . 1 million people a year in the United States get shingles. Shingles vaccine A vaccine for shingles was licensed in 2 . In clinical trials, the vaccine reduced the risk of shingles by 50%. It can also reduce pain in people who still get shingles . Headache (about 1 person in 70). , shingles vaccine is being closely monitored . What if there is a serious reaction? What should I look for?. The shingles vaccine is a safe and easy, one-time shot that may keep you from getting shingles. Most people age should get vaccinated. You should get the shot even if you have already had shingles or don't remember having chickenpox. However, if you have a weak immune system or allergies , make . You can get the shingles vaccine at your doctor's office and at some pharmacies. All Medicare Part D plans and health insurance plans will cover the cost. Shingles is a viral infection that causes a painful rash of fluid-filled blisters. If the chickenpox virus becomes active, it travels to your skin where it causes painful sores Doctors dont know what causes the virus to become active again, but it sometimes happens when medicines or other illnesses weaken your immune system Adults ages 50 and older and people with a weakened immune system are more likely to get shingles You usually get shingles only once Medicines cant cure shingles, but antivirals (medicines that stop viruses) and pain medicine may help you feel better A vaccine can prevent shingles . Go to a doctor . if you think you have shingles, because treatment works best when started early.
228	This causes headaches that feel piercing, throbbing or shock-like pain in the upper neck, back of the head or behind the ears. . Causes. . Occipital neuralgia can be the result of pinched nerves or muscle tightness in the neck. It can also be caused by a head or neck injury. Occipital neuralgia can either be . Causes. . Occipital neuralgia is a distinct type of headache characterized by piercing, throbbing, or electric-shock-like chronic pain in the upper neck, back of the head, and behind the ears, usually on one side of the head. Typically, the pain of occipital neuralgia begins in the neck and then spreads upwards. Some individuals will also experience pain in the scalp, forehead, and behind the eyes. Their scalp may also be tender to the touch, and their eyes especially sensitive to light. The location of pain is related to the areas supplied by the occipital nerves, which run from the area where the spinal column meets the neck, up to the scalp at the back of the head. The pain is caused by irritation or injury to the nerves, which can be the result of trauma to the back of the head, pinching of the nerves by overly tight neck muscles, compression of the nerve as it leaves the spine due to osteoarthritis, or tumors or other types of lesions in the neck. Localized inflammation or infection, gout, diabetes, blood vessel inflammation (vasculitis), and frequent lengthy periods of keeping the head in a downward and forward position are also associated with occipital neuralgia. , however, no cause can be found. A positive response (relief from pain) after an anesthetic nerve block will confirm the diagnosis.
230	Along with its needed effects, a medicine may cause some unwanted effects. Although not all of these side effects may occur, if they do occur they may need medical attention. . Check immediately if any of the following side effects occur:. . . Confusion. twisting, twitching, or other unusual body movements. unusual tiredness or weakness. worsening of parkinsonism. . Abdominal or stomach pain. Ropinirole may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: - nausea - vomiting - stomach pain - heartburn or gas - diarrhea - constipation - decrease in appetite - weight loss - dizziness - drowsiness - tiredness - weakness - headache - sweating or flushing - confusion - difficulty remembering or concentrating - anxiety - uncontrolled, sudden body movements - shaking of a part of your body that you cannot control - decreased sensitivity (response) to touch - frequent or urgent need to urinate - difficulty urinating or pain when urinating - in men, difficulty achieving or maintaining an erection - back, muscle, or joint pain - pain, burning, numbness, or tingling in the hands or feet - swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs - dry mouth Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: - hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) - fainting - chest pain - slow, fast, or irregular heartbeat - shortness of breath - difficulty swallowing - double vision or other changes in vision People who have Parkinson's disease may have a greater risk of developing melanoma (a type of skin cancer) than people who do not have Parkinson's disease. It is not yet known whether this problem is caused by ropinirole. Talk to your doctor . Ropinirole may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online (http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch) or by phone (1-8 -332-1 ).
231	Guillain-Barre syndrome is a rare disorder that causes your immune system to attack your peripheral nervous system (PNS). The first symptom is usually weakness or a tingling feeling . Without treatment, most people with Guillain-Barr syndrome improve slowly . After initial improvement, 3 to 10% of people with Guillain-Barr syndrome develop chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. In Guillain-Barr syndrome, the immune response damages peripheral nerves, which are the nerves that connect the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord) to the limbs and organs. Guillain-Barr syndrome can affect the neurons that control muscle movement (motor neurons); the neurons that transmit sensory signals (sensory neurons); or both. Because of sensory nerve damage, affected individuals can lose the ability to sense the position of their limbs and can have abnormal or absent reflexes (areflexia).Miller Fisher syndrome, another type of Guillain-Barr syndrome, involves cranial nerves, which extend from the brain to various areas of the head and neck. Miller Fisher syndrome is characterized : weakness or paralysis of the muscles that move the eyes (ophthalmoplegia), problems with balance and coordination (ataxia), and areflexia. People can have other signs and symptoms common in Guillain-Barr syndrome, such as muscle weakness. Guillain-Barr syndrome occurs in people . Most people who have Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) regain muscle strength within a few months after diagnosis and treatment. Some people may have a slower recovery from the symptoms of GBS, and they may be in the hospital or on a ventilator for a longer time. About 30% of people who had GBS continue to have muscle weakness years after the first symptoms of GBS. In rare cases, people have passed away from complications of GBS. Causes of death may include acute respiratory distress syndrome, sepsis, pulmonary emboli, and unexplained cardiac arrest. Some people with GBS may relapse after an original improvement of symptoms. The risk of relapse appears to be higher in people who have had a later onset of treatment, a longer-lasting disease, and other medical problems occurring . For many with GBS, suddenly relying on family members and medical professionals to help can be devastating. In some cases, people with GBS may suffer . It is important for people with GBS and their family members to tell their doctor about signs and symptoms of depression, especially if the depression is long-lasting and does not improve as the physical symptoms of GBS improve. Unfortunately, there is no cure for Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). Both of these therapies can help prevent the immune system from continuing to attack the peripheral nervous system. In some cases, corticosteroids have been used to try to alleviate symptoms of GBS. However, it has not been proven that steroids can help speed recovery. People who have GBS may be admitted to the hospital for treatment and to reduce the risk of complications. In some cases, other treatments may be necessary to prevent complications of GBS including pain medications and heparin to reduce the risk of blood clots. Some people with GBS may require help breathing with a ventilator. Physical, occupational, and speech therapy may be recommended to help people fully recover from GBS.
232	Causes include: Problems with your bladder muscles Something blocking your bladders opening, such as a kidney stone or enlarged prostate gland Severe constipation (fecal impaction), Nerve problems to your bladder (these can happen in people with health problems such as diabetes or Parkinson disease), Certain medicines. Urinary retention is in men because growth of the prostate can block the flow of urine. Catheterization Treatment of the cause Surgery, occasionally If people cannot urinate , doctors immediately insert a thin rubber tube into the bladder (urinary catheter) to remove the retained urine and provide relief. The cause of urinary retention is treated. Drugs that can cause urinary retention are stopped whenever possible. Men who have an enlarged prostate may need prostate surgery or drugs to shrink the prostate () or drugs that relax the muscles at the neck of the bladder (). People who have nerve problems that interfere with bladder contractions or function may need to use a catheter themselves periodically or have a catheter . Occasionally surgery is needed to direct urine from the bladder away from the urethra and out of the body. Urinary retention is when: You can't urinate (pee) , You can urinate but there's still urine in your bladder after you're done. With urinary retention: You may also leak urine and urinate without meaning to (urinary incontinence). Doctors will do an ultrasound after you pee to see how much urine is left in your bladder. Doctors may use a catheter (thin flexible tube) to empty your bladder. If you cant urinate , doctors will insert a catheter into your bladder to drain the urine. To treat the cause of your urinary retention, doctors may: Have you stop any medicines that may be causing the problem If youre a man with an enlarged prostate, treat it with surgery or medicines Prescribe medicine to relax the muscles at the opening of your bladder If you have nerve problems, have you put a catheter in your bladder several times a day to drain urine Sometimes, do surgery to pass urine out of your body in a different way.
234	The electrodes send small amounts of electricity and thus help relieve symptoms. Deep brain stimulation is sometimes done when drugs cannot control a severe, disabling tremor. Sometimes essential tremors or tremors due to Parkinson disease or another disorder require such treatment. These treatments are available only . What are the treatments for tremor?. There is no cure for most forms of tremor, but there are treatments to help manage symptoms. Tremor caused may get better or go away when you treat that condition. If your tremor is caused , stopping that medicine usually makes the tremor go away. Treatments for tremor where the cause is not found include Medicines. Primary orthostatic tremor (POT) is a rare, unsteadiness when standing still, due to a rapid affecting the legs and trunk. The tremor is sometimes described as having shaky legs, and it improves or disappears when walking, sitting, or lying down. This may cause people to sit again or walk immediately , for fear of falling. People may also experience tiredness, physical exhaustion, muscle stiffness or weakness, and/or pain. Symptoms tend to gradually worsen and may lead to the need for a mobility aid such as a cane, scooter, or wheelchair. The diagnosis of POT relies on a clinical exam as well as a specialized test called a surface electromyogram (EMG), which measures electrical activity in the muscles. The cause of POT is not , but the disorder is thought to involve dysfunction of the brains ability to regulate nerve signals that control muscle activity. Some researchers believe that POT is a type of . Treatment usually involves medications used to control seizures (anticonvulsants) such as clonazepam or gabapentin. More than one therapy may be tried . POT does not appear to alter life expectancy. However, quality may be severely impaired . Doctors will treat the cause of your tremor. If you take medicines that could be causing your tremor, your doctors may be . If your tremor is mild, you may not need treatment. Some simple actions may help, including: Grabbing objects tightly and holding them close to your body to avoid dropping them Avoiding uncomfortable positions Using helpful devices, such as Velcro, straws, and spoons or forks with large handles To avoid triggers of your tremor: Avoid caffeine (in coffee, soda, chocolate, tea) Get at least 7 hours of sleep at night Lower your stress as much as possible Talk to your doctor , such as beta-blockers, antiseizure medicines, or sedatives. If your tremor happens when you reach for things, you may: Work to use weights to steady the tremor Hold your arm steady while reaching If your tremor happens when you walk, strapping a weight may help steady your leg. Eliminating or minimizing the trigger may lessen the tremor. People may benefit from taking a low dose of a benzodiazepine (a sedative), such as lorazepam. If a physiologic tremor is worsened , propranolol (a beta-blocker) may help.
235	Many adults should have their blood cholesterol levels tested at a younger age, possibly as age 20 years, if they have risk factors . Children with risk factors should also have their blood cholesterol levels checked. Some expert groups recommend cholesterol testing for all children ages 9 to 11 and . Have your cholesterol checked (probably every year) if you have: Diabetes Heart disease Blood flow problems to your feet or legs A history of stroke A blood cholesterol test measures the level of total cholesterol. Treatment includes: Eating a healthy diet Losing weight (if you are overweight) Exercising You may also need medicine to lower your cholesterol. Summary : Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that occurs naturally in all parts of the body. Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in your blood, it can combine with other substances in the blood and stick to the walls of your arteries. High levels of cholesterol in the blood can increase your risk . There are usually no signs or symptoms that you have high blood cholesterol, but it can be detected with a blood test. You are likely to have high cholesterol if members of your family have it, if you are overweight or if you eat a lot . You can lower your cholesterol by exercising more and eating more fruits and vegetables. You also may need to take medicine to lower your cholesterol. Some people's body makes cholesterol, what they eat. This kind of high cholesterol problem runs in families. High cholesterol can also be caused by: Eating a lot of foods high in fat and cholesterol, Having diabetes, Not being active, Drinking alcohol, Taking certain medicines. You don't have to be fat to have high cholesterol. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your body. . What are the treatments for high cholesterol?. If you have high cholesterol, lifestyle changes can help you to lower your cholesterol level. But sometimes the lifestyle changes are not enough, and you need to take cholesterol medicines. You should still continue with the lifestyle changes even though you are taking medicines. . What are the different types of medicines for cholesterol?. There are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available, including Statins, which block the liver from making cholesterol Bile acid sequestrants, which decrease the amount of fat absorbed from food Cholesterol absorption inhibitors, which decrease the amount of cholesterol absorbed from food and lower triglycerides. Nicotinic acid (niacin), which lowers LDL (bad) cholesterol and triglycerides and raises HDL (good) cholesterol. Even though you can buy niacin , you should talk to your health care provider before taking it to lower your cholesterol.
238	People with this type of memory loss occasionally forget things, such as where they left their car keys. But for them, unlike people with dementia, the ability to do daily activities or to think is not impaired. This type of memory loss is not a sign of dementia or early Alzheimer disease. Mild cognitive impairment. can cause a type of memory loss (called pseudodementia) that resembles memory loss . Thus, determining whether dementia or depression is the cause of memory loss can be difficult. However, people with memory loss , unlike those with dementia, are aware of their memory loss and complain . The cause of memory loss is: Getting olderminor changes in memory can be normal as you age. Memory loss that is more severe than expected for a person 's age , particularly difficulty remembering recent events and conversations ( short-term memory loss ) Memory loss and fear of dementia are common sources . Usually, memory loss results from normal age-related changes in the brain, which slow mental functions do not significantly impair them. Memory loss usually interferes with the ability to do daily activities and becomes . People who are aware of memory loss may not have dementia. Memory loss is the inability to remember things as well as you used to. Mild memory loss can be a normal part of aging. Memory loss that is more serious may be a warning sign of a brain function problem, such as Alzheimer disease or dementia. Your family members may notice your memory loss before you do. Signs of more serious memory loss include forgetting or having problems doing activities you've done many times before. Using lists, calendars, and memory aids can help you cope with memory loss. , memory is affected, but memory loss is not the symptom. Doctors can usually determine whether the cause is age-related changes, mild cognitive impairment, or early dementia based on the type of memory loss and the symptoms that accompany it. These tests must be given by a trained, licensed psychologist or psychiatrist with expertise in memory loss.
239	Turner syndrome affects about 1 worldwide. . This disorder affects all races and regions equally. There are no known environmental risks for Turner syndrome. Parents who have had many unaffected children can still have a child with Turner syndrome . . Generally, Turner syndrome is not passed on . , women with Turner syndrome are infertile. This condition occurs in about 1 in 2,5 newborn girls worldwide, but it is much more common among pregnancies that do not survive to term (miscarriages and stillbirths). Turner syndrome is a rare genetic condition in which a female does not have the usual pair .