 Depression is one of the most common mental disorders in the U.S. It causes severe symptoms that affect how you feel, think, and handle daily activities. Risk factors for depression are family history, life experiences, and environment. Depression can co-occur with other serious medical illnesses, such as diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and Parkinsons disease. People who have severely disturbed sleep may need to have testing to distinguish sleep disorders from depression.. Postpartum depression is much more serious than the baby blues (relatively mild depressive and anxiety symptoms that typically clear. within two weeks after delivery) that many women experience after giving birth. The feelings of extreme sadness, anxiety, and exhaustion that accompany postpartum. depression may make it difficult for these new mothers to complete daily care activities for themselves and/or for their babies. For older adults who experience depression for the first time later in life, other factors may be at play. Depression may be related to changes that occur in the brain and body as a person ages. Certain medicines and some health problems (such as viruses or a thyroid disorder) can cause the same symptoms as depression. Talk to your doctor or nurse if you have symptoms of depression. The doctor, nurse, or mental health professional may order lab tests on a sample of your blood or urine and do a regular checkup to rule out other problems that could be causing your symptoms. A person diagnosed with persistent depressive disorder may have episodes of major depression along with periods of less severe symptoms. Persistent depressive disorder (also called dysthymia) is a depressed mood that lasts for at least two years at least at least one in every two years. It is now recognized as occurring in children and adolescents, although it sometimes presents with more prominent irritability than low mood. Winter depression, typically accompanied by social withdrawal, increased sleep, and weight gain, predictably returns every year in seasonal affective disorder. However, laboratory tests may help a doctor determine whether depression is caused by a hormonal or other physical disorder. People with bipolar disorder experience episodes of extremely low moods that meet the criteria for major depression (called bipolar depression) Some types of depression have been added to the diagnostic classification of the DSM-5. These include disruptive mood regulation in children, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) and prediagnosed adolescents and pre-diagnosed pre- Diagnosis of depression (PDD)