Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is a chronic, slow-growing lymphoproliferative disorder. It usually affects older adults and is primarily found in the bone marrow, although lymph nodes and the spleen may be involved. Affected individuals have a high level of an antibody called immunoglobulin M (IgM) in their blood, which can cause thickening of the blood. Common symptoms include weakness, appetite loss and weight loss. Other symptoms may include peripheral neuropathy, fever, Raynaud's phenomenon, and mental status changes. Treatment is often reserved for those with symptoms and may include various medications including corticosteroids, alkylating agents, biologic response modifiers and purine analogues. Some affected individuals have elevated levels of IgM and lymphoplasmacytic cells but no symptoms of the condition. In these cases, the disease is usually found incidentally by a blood test taken for another reason. For example, doctors may check a blood sample to determine if the numbers of red and white blood cells and platelets are normal. An examination of a urine sample may show Bence Jones proteins (pieces of abnormal antibodies). A bone marrow biopsy may reveal an increased number of lymphocytes and plasma cells, which helps confirm the diagnosis of Waldenstrm macrogLobeinemia. The most common known genetic change associated with this condition is a mutation in the MYD88 gene, which is found in more than 90 percent of affected individuals. The cause of the disorder is not known, but environmental, genetic, and viral factors have been suggested. The mutations that cause this condition are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in the abnormal blood cells. The overproduction of this large protein is how the condition got its name ("macrogLobulinesia") is known as cryoglobulins. The excess IgM can thicken blood and impair circulation, causing a condition known as hyperviscosity syndrome. This can lead to bleeding in the nose or mouth, blurring or loss of vision, headache, dizziness, and difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia)