Diabetes is a disease caused by high levels of blood sugar (glucose) in your body. There are two major types of diabetes: type 1 and type 2. The causes and risk factors are different for each type. Testing the types and levels of antibodies in the blood can help determine whether a person has type 1 diabetes, LADA, or another type of diabetes. Weight loss can help control type 2 diabetes so that you are healthier. But, obesity and smoking do not always cause diabetes. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. A chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. For people who inherit two copies of the variants, the risk of developingtype 2 diabetes is about 80 percent higher than for those who do not carry the gene variant. However, even in those with the variant, diet and physical activity leading to weight loss help delay diabetes, according to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a major clinical trial involving people at high risk. Single gene defects lead to specific forms of diabetes called maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. A virus cannot cause diabetes on its own, but people are sometimes diagnosed withtype 1 diabetes during or after a viral infection, suggesting a link between the two. For example, breastfed infants and infants receiving vitamin D supplements may have a reduced risk of becoming diabetes-stricken. Early exposure to cows milk and cereal proteins may increase risk. In the past, type1 diabetes was called juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) may be a slowly developing kind of type 1 Diabetes is caused by an infection or another trigger causes the body to mistakenly attack the beta cells in the pancreas that make insulin.