Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited eye diseases that affect the light-sensitive part of the eye (retina) RP causes cells in the retina to die, causing progressive vision loss. Treatment options to slow the progression of vision loss include light avoidance, use of low-vision aids, and vitamin A supplementation. Researchers are working to develop new treatment options for the future such as gene therapy, stem cell transplantation and prosthetic implants. FDA-Approved Treatments The medication(s) listed below have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as orphan products for treatment of this condition. Learn more orphan products. Back to Mail Online home. back to the page you came from. The first sign of RP usually is night blindness. As the condition progresses, affected individuals develop tunnel vision (loss of peripheral vision), and eventually loss of central vision. Retinal transplantation would involve the injection and integration of stem cells into the retina, in hopes these cells will replace dead cells and provide the missing enzymes and chemicals needed for sight. Gene therapy could potentially be used when the disease-causing mutation is known and would aim to restore production of the missing or abnormal protein. Studies with retinal prosthetics have tested devices that transform light into electrical signals that can be sent directly to the inner retina and brain, avoiding the diseased parts of the outer retina. People who have lost all vision or almost all vision can be given a surgically implanted computer chip in the eye, which can restore some perception of light and shapes. Some practitioners also consider vitamin A as a possible treatment option. However, taking too much vitamin A can be toxic and the effects of vitamin A on the disease appear to be relatively weak.[4] Studies have explored potential treatment with DHA, an omega-3 fatty acid naturally found in fish. While DHA is known to play a structural role in retinal cells, more research is needed to determine whether supplements should be recommended. Vitamin A palmitate may help slow the progress of the disorder in some people. Sometimes, drugs called carbonic anhydrase inhibitors are given by mouth or as eye drops.