Numbness results when one part of the pathway for sensation malfunctions, usually because of a disorder or drug. With numbness, you may not be able to: Feel a light touch Sense pain Tell hot from cold Sense vibration Know the position of the numb part of your body. Your health care provider should find and treat the cause of your numbness or tingling. Doctors may suggest ways to help ease symptoms and prevent other problems. The condition causing numbness is corrected or treated when possible. If your foot is numb, wear shoes and socks that fit well and check for pebbles or other things in your shoes before putting them on. Check your numb area for sores, redness, or swelling. If you have problems walking, getting physical therapy or using a cane or walker may help you walk safely and prevent falls. Talk with your doctor about whether it's safe for you to drive. For example, if you have carpal tunnel syndrome or low back pain, your doctor may recommend certain exercises. If people get numbness in the spinal cord, people get anxious when they feel and breathe too fast (hyperventilation). Numbness refers to complete and complete sensation or loss of sensation. It is often accompanied by abnormal sensations, such as tingled or numbness. Sometimes changes in vision or speech. Doctors ask the person to describe the numbness and other symptoms. Then doctors may ask specific questions: When numbness began How quickly it began Whether the person also has other symptoms such as weakness or paralysis, loss of bowel or bladder control, retention of urine, vision problems, difficulty swallowing, or deterioration of mental function. What they find during the history and physical examination often suggests a cause and the tests that may need to be done (see table Some Causes and Features of Numbedness). Doctors also ask whether the person has had a disorder that can cause numbness such as diabetes, chronic kidney disease, infections (such as HIV infection or Lyme disease), a stroke, or arthritis. Telling doctors which parts of the body are affected by the disorder helps identify the location of the malfunction, usually with nerve conduction studies and electromyography if the roots of the nerves are affected or MRI of the brain and spinal cord. Back and/or neck pain suggests osteoarthritis, a ruptured disk, or another disorder that puts pressure on the spinal Cord.