5	Coughing is important because it helps clear your airways of irritants, such as smoke and mucus. Coughing also helps prevent infections. Common causes of a chronic cough are upper airway cough syndrome (UACS), asthma, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) Medications used to treat chronic cough may include: Antihistamines, corticosteroids and decongestants. If a bacterial, fungal or mycobacterial infection is causing your chronic cough, your doctor may prescribe medications to address the infection. If you're taking an ACE inhibitor medication, your doctors may switch you to another medicine that doesn't have cough as a side effect. Some people need surgery to resolve the problem of acid reflux. For example, antibiotics may be given for pneumonia. For asthma-related cough, Corticosteroid and bronchodilators can reduce inflammation and open up the airways. Inhaled asthma drugs are the most effective treatments.
24	Primary familial brain calcification is caused by mutations in one of several genes. The most commonly mutated gene is called SLC20A2, and accounts for an estimated 40 percent of cases. Tests that might be done includes biochemical analysis of blood and urine, as well as analysis of cerebrospinal fluid. To date, no specific treatment for PFBC is known. Medications can be used to treat symptoms associated with this condition, such as movement disorders, seizures, anxiety, depression, psychosis and urinary incontinence. Off label prescription of biphosphanates have been reported in few patients. The diagnosis of PFBC relies upon visualization of bilateral (on both sides) calcification of the basal ganglia on neuroimaging. A family history consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (a person must inherit one copy of the altered gene from one parent to have the condition) can help confirm the diagnosis. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) provides information about the genetic tests for this condition. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional. For individuals in who a diagnosis ofPFBC is being considered, other causes should be eliminated prior to pursuing genetic testing, particularly in simplex cases.
38	70% of people with GBS eventually experience full recovery. About 30 percent of those with Guillain-Barr√© have residual weakness after 3 years. About 3 percent may suffer a relapse of muscle weakness and tingling sensations many years after the initial attack. Recovery can take weeks, months, or years. Most people survive and recover completely. In some people, mild weakness may persist. Possible complications of GBS include: Breathing difficulty (respiratory failure) Shortening of tissues in the joints (contractures) or other deformities Blood clots (deep vein thrombosis) Increased risk of infections Low or unstable blood pressure Paralysis that is permanent Pneumonia Skin damage (ulcers) Breathing food or fluids into the lungs.
94	Treatment options include "watchful waiting," lifestyle changes, medicines, or surgery. If you are over 60, you are more likely to have symptoms. Many men with an enlarged prostate have only minor symptoms. The choice of the appropriate treatment is based on the severity of the symptoms, the extent to which they affect lifestyle, and the presence of other medical conditions. For mild symptoms: Urinate when you first get the urge, go to the bathroom on a timed schedule, and avoid alcohol and caffeine, especially after dinner. Try NOT to take over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines that contain decongestants or antihistamines. Keep warm and exercise regularly. Cold weather and lack of physical activity may worsen symptoms. Reduce stress. Nervousness and tension can lead to more frequent urination. Spread out fluids during the day. Avoid drinking fluids within 2 hours of bedtime. Some studies have shown that it may help with symptoms, but results are mixed, and more research is needed. BPH symptoms improve in some men after a course of antibiotics. Some men use saw palmetto to ease symptoms. Some people who take alpha-1 blockers notice improvement in their symptoms, usually within 3 to 7 days after starting the medicine. Antibiotics may be prescribed to treat chronic prostatitis (inflammation of the prostate), which may occur with BPH. The drugs Finasteride and dutasteride lower levels of hormones produced by the prostate.
95	Most machines and devices will not interfere with your pacemaker. Stay away from large motors, generators, and equipment. Tell all providers that you have a pacemaker before any tests are done. You will probably be able to go home after 1 day or even the same day in some cases. Ask your provider how much you can use the arm on the side of your body where the pacemaker was placed. You may be advised not to: Lift anything heavier than 10 to 15 pounds (4.5 to 6.75 kilograms) Push, pull, and twist your arm for 2 to 3 weeks. Raise your arm above your shoulder for several weeks. DO NOT lean over the open hood of a car that is running. Do not put your cell phone in a pocket on the same side of you body as yourpacemaker. Be careful around metal detectors and security wands. Handheldsecurity wands may interfere withYour pacemaker, so ask your provider about any specific device that you need to avoid. Most appliances in your home are safe to be around. You should keep several devices at least 12 inches (30 centimeters) away from the site where thepacemaker is placed under your skin. These include: Battery powered cordless tools (such as screwdrivers and drills) Plug-in power tools ( such as drills and table saws)
97	Sensorineural deafness is a type of hearing loss. It occurs from damage to the inner ear, the nerve that runs from the ear to the brain (auditory nerve), or the brain. Causes of conductive hearing loss can often be treated. Cochlear Implant is a small electronic device that the surgeon places under the skin and behind the ear. The device picks up sounds, changes them to electrical signals, and sends them past the non-working part of the inner ears and on to thebrain. It lets many people communicate orally in person and over the telephone, and perceive sounds in the environment. Treating hearing loss early can allow many infants to develop normal language skills without delay. In infants born with hearing loss, treatments should start as early as age 6 months. Over 30 states in the United States require newborn hearing screenings. Treatment may include: Speech therapy Learning sign language Cochlear implant (for those with profound sensorineural hearing loss) Medicines for infections Ear tubes for repeated ear infections Surgery to correct structural problems Conductive Hearing Loss (CHL) occurs because of a mechanical problem in the outer or middle ear. This may be because: The 3 tiny bones of the ear (ossicles) are not conducting sound properly. Pressure differences between the inside and outside of the eardrum, often from scuba diving Skull fractures. Trauma from explosions, fireworks, gunfire, rock concerts, and earphones The eardrums are not vibrating in response to sound. Some hearing aids can be plugged into televisions or stereos to help you hear better.
102	The outlook for people with transverse myelitis varies. Most recovery occurs within 3 months after the condition occurs. Treatment options may include intravenous steroids, pain medicines, plasmapheresis (also called plasma exchange), intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and cyclophosphamide. The medication(s) listed below have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as orphan products for treatment of this condition. People with an underlying cause, such as MS, may be more likely to develop the spinal cord side of the condition in the future. There is no effective cure for transverseMyelitis, but there is a treatment option for the condition that may improve symptoms in some cases. For some, healing may take months to years. Recovery can take up to 2 or 3 years. About a third of people recover completely with moderate disabilities. Those who have poor chance of recovery are people whose symptoms do not improve within the first 6 months. It may only recur once in most people, but it may recur in some people once in two or three years. For more information, visit the National Library of Medicine Drug Information Portal or the American Academy of Neurology's Drug Information portal. For confidential support, call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.samaritans.org, or click here for details. In the U.S. call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255 or visit www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org. If you or a family member have contemplated suicide, or have contemplated doing so, contact the National suicide prevention Lifeline at (800) 273-TALK (8255) or visit http://www.suicidesprevention.org/. For confidential. support in the United States, call (877) 909090.
103	Glaucoma is an eye disease that causes vision loss. It usually happens when pressure from extra fluid within your eyeball damages the nerve in your eye (optic nerve) Vision loss usually happens slowly, so you may not notice it right away. It can cause lasting vision loss and blindness if not treated. Special eye drops (prescribed by your doctor) can lower the pressure in your eyes. Get a full eye exam every 1 to 2 years to detect glaucomA early and help prevent vision loss if you're at risk for the disease. There is no cure for glau coma, but there are treatments that may save remaining vision. The risk is much greater for people over 60, so get an eye exam as soon as possible to be sure you don't have the disease, even if you have no symptoms yet. If you have the most common type of glauCOMa, get your eyes checked every 1-2 years.
105	Dementia is not a specific disease. It is a collection of symptoms that can be caused by a number of disorders that affect the brain. Early diagnosis is important, as some causes for symptoms can be treated. In many cases, the specific type of dementia a person has may not be confirmed until after the person has died and the brain is examined. Doctors diagnose dementia only if two or more brain functions - such as memory and language skills - are significantly impaired without loss of consciousness. Some of the diseases that can cause symptoms of dementia are Alzheimers disease, vascular dementia, Lewy body dementia, frontotemporal dementia, Huntingtons disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Doctors have identified other conditions that can. cause dementia or dementia-like symptoms including reactions to medications, metabolic problems and endocrine abnormalities, nutritional deficiencies, infections, poisoning, brain tumors, anoxia or. hypoxia (conditions in which the brains oxygen supply is either reduced or cut off entirely), and heart and lung problems. While memory loss is a common symptom of dementia, memory loss by itself does not mean that a people has dementia.
110	According to many investigators, acrocallosal syndrome, Schinzel type may be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. In recessive disorders, the condition does not appear unless a person inherits the same defective gene for the same trait from each parent. If an individual receives one normal gene and one gene for a disease, the person will be a carrier for the disease but usually will not show symptoms. This condition results from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. It is considered autosomal dominant, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
115	If a person has COVID-19, they may be contagious for a longer period of time than if they had flu. For adults who never develop symptoms, isolation and other precautions can be discontinued 10 days after the date of their first positive RT-PCR test result for SARS-CoV-2 RNA. Some adults with severe illness may produce replication-competent virus beyond 10 days that may warrant extending duration of isolation and precautions for up to 20 days after symptom onset. Infants and people with weakened immune systems can be infectious for even longer. It?s possible for people to spread the virus for about 2 days before experiencing signs or symptoms. If someone is asymptomatic or their symptoms go away, it’s possible to remain contagious for at least 10 days. For all others, a test-based strategy is no longer recommended except to discontinue isolation or precautions earlier than would occur under the strategy outlined in Part 1, above. Viral diagnostic testing (RT-PCr or antigen)*** and quarantine is not recommended if another exposure occurs or might have occurred within 90 days after date of symptom onset from the initial Sars- cov-2 infection.
116	Some tips that may help reduce swelling: Put your legs on pillows to raise them above your heart while lying down. Follow a low-salt diet, which may reduce fluid buildup and swelling. Wear support stockings (sold at most drugstores and medical supply stores) When traveling, take breaks often to stand up and move around. Avoid wearing tight clothing or garters around your thighs. Lose weight if you need to. Follow your health care provider's treatment recommendations. If you have long-term swelling, ask your provider about options to prevent skin breakdown, such as: - Flotation ring - Lamb's wool pad - Pressure-reducing mattress.
117	Pandemic Influenza outbreaks have been predictably unpredictable in the years since 1918 but always global. One million people around the world died in a 1957 outbreak which started in China but spread globally. The 2009 Swine flu A(H1N1) pandemic, started in Mexico and spread to over 214 countries and overseas territories or communities. Researchers are always on the lookout, though, because the next outbreak could be far worse. WHO and partners are developing a Global Influenza Strategy to be launched in 2018. This will include improved influenza modelling and forecasting, along with the development of new vaccines, including a possible universal influenza vaccine. WHO is working closely with Ministries of Health, regional and national influenza research and surveillance centres, and other stakeholders to develop a multi-layered approach to preparing for and responding to both seasonal flu outbreaks and pandemics.
119	Zoledronic Acid (ZOE-le-DRON-ik AS-id) Injection is a prescription medicine used to: Treat certain men and women who have Paget's disease of the bone. Do not take zoledronic acid injection if you: Have low levels of calcium in your blood Have kidney problems Are allergic to zoledronics acid or any of its ingredients. Severe kidney problems may happen when you take Zoledronicacid injection. Patients should tell their doctor if they have kidney problems and what medications they are taking. Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about zoledronic acid injection. See FDA-Approved Medication Guide Information for Patients for more information on how to get your hands on a prescription for zoledronside acid injection or Zometa in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch, or see www.samaritans.org for details. In the United States, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255 or visit www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org. For details on the National Institutes of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, visit the National Arthritis Foundation’s Arthritis & Musculo- Skeletal Diseases website. For more information about the American College of Rheumatology and the American Society for Rheumatic Diseases, see the American Rheumetaller Society for Research and Therapy (ASR).
121	cefuroxime axetil (125 to 500 mg twice daily) comes as a tablet and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 12 hours (twice a day) for 7-10 days.
122	Women who are not physically active have a higher risk of getting breast cancer. Smoking, being exposed to chemicals that can cause cancer, and changes in other hormones due to night shift working also may increase breast cancer risk. Being overweight or obese after menopause has been found to raise risk. Having the first pregnancy after age 30, not breastfeeding, and never having a full-term pregnancy can raise breast cancerrisk. Geography (where you live) can affect your chances of getting cancer. Sometimes people in a family are more likely to have a certain cancer. A cancer-causing gene could run in that family. One cancer-Causing gene called BRCA increases the risk of breast cancer, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The risk for breast cancer increases with the more alcohol a woman drinks, as well as other factors such as smoking, smoking, and exposure to carcinogens such as asbestos, radon, benzene, chromates, nickel, certain pesticides, and vinyl chloride. The more alcohol you drink, the more likely you are to develop breast cancer and other types of cancer. The higher your risk of developing breast cancer is, the higher your chance of developing other forms of the disease, such as ovarian cancer, lung cancer, skin cancer, or prostate cancer. For more information, visit www.cdc.gov/breastcancercare.
125	Scientists are exploring how lupus develops and how therapies affect the course of the disease. They are also exploring drugs to prevent or delay kidney failure. Experts are also collaborating to develop registries and working groups, such as: The Lupus Family Registry and Repository, which gathers medical information as well as blood and tissue samples from patients and their relatives. Eat a healthy well-balanced diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Exercise to help keep your body strong; however, talk to your doctor before starting an exercise program. This will help lower your risk for heart disease that can be a complication ofLupus. Close monitoring during pregnancy is essential, especially if you have low platelets, antiphospholipid antibodies, anti-SSA/Ro antibodies, high blood pressure, lung or heart problems, or kidney disease. Birth control pills do not increase the risk for severe flares among women with l upus, but estrogen-containing pills are not recommended for women with antiph phosphate antibodies. If you start to plan a pregnancy, talk with your doctor so you can be as healthy as possible before becoming pregnant. Most people with mild disease or who are in remission can usually participate in the same life activities as they did before they were diagnosed with lupu disease. The disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, lung, kidneys, circulating blood cells, and brain. It is a chronic (long-lasting) autoimmune disease that affects many parts of the body.
129	A suprapubic catheter (tube) drains urine from your bladder. Insert a catheter into your urethra through your urinary opening in your labia (women) or penis (men) You will need to check your catheter and bag throughout the day. You will get a prescription to buy special catheters at a medical supply store. Drink plenty of water during the day to keep urine flowing. Call your health care provider if: - You are having trouble changing yourCatheter or emptying your bag. - Your bag is filling up quickly, and you have an increase in urine. - You have urinary retention, urinary retention (not being able to urinate), surgery that made the catheter necessary, or another health problem. Click here for more information on how to get a suprapubsurgery catheter in the U.S. and around the world.
131	Some people with nerve damage have numbness, tingling, or pain, but others have no symptoms. Nerve damage can also lower your ability to feel pain, heat, or cold. There are many possible causes of numbness and tingled, including: Sitting or standing in the same position for a long time Injuring a nerve (a neck injury may cause you to feel numbness anywhere along your arm or hand) Pressure on the nerves of the spine, such as from a herniated disk. Pressure on peripheral nerves from enlarged blood vessels, tumors, scar tissue, or infection Shingles or herpes zoster infection Other infections such as HIV/AIDS, leprosy, syphilis, or tuberculosis Lack of blood supply to an area from hardening of the arteries, frostbite, or vessel inflammation Abnormal levels of calcium, potassium, or sodium in your body Deficiency of B vitamins such as B1, B6, B12, or folic acid Use of certain medicines use of certain illicit street drugs Nerve Damage due to lead, alcohol, or tobacco, or from chemotherapy drugs Radiation therapy Animal bites Insect, tick, mite, and spider bites Seafood toxins Congenital conditions that affect the nerves Numbness andTingling can be caused by other medical conditions, including Diabetes Migraines Multiple sclerosis Seizures Stroke Transient ischemic attack (TIA), sometimes called a "mini-stroke"
133	Most people recover completely from a simple elbow sprain in about 4 weeks. Crush injuries most often need to be evaluated in a hospital emergency department. If there is suspicion of a head, neck, or spinal injury, immobilize those areas if possible and then limit movement to only the crushed area. You can take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps with pain, but not swelling. Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney or liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past. Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or local hospital for further advice. You may need to wear a sling, splint, or cast for about 2 to 3 weeks while your elbow heals. Depending on how badly it is sprained, you might need to work with a physical therapist who will show you stretching and strengthening exercises. Don't move the elbow unless you're instructed to do so. Do not place ice directly on the skin. Cold from the ice can damage your skin.
136	You can try the following home care steps to ease mild abdominal pain. If the pain is high up in your abdomen and occurs after meals, antacids may help, especially if you feel heartburn or indigestion. Avoid citrus, high-fat foods, fried or greasy foods, tomato products, caffeine, alcohol, and carbonated beverages. Call your health care provider if: Waking to urinate more often continues over several days. You are bothered by the number of times you must urinate during the night. You have a burning sensation when urinating. You might have abdominal pain if you have: Severe menstrual cramps Endometriosis Muscle strain Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) Tubal (ectopic) pregnancy Ruptured ovarian cyst Urinary tract infections Sometimes, you may only need to call a health care. provider if your symptoms continue. If you have been vomiting, wait 6 hours, and then eat small amounts of mild foods such as rice, applesauce, or crackers. Food poisoning Stomach flu Other possible causes include: Appendicitis Abdominal aortic aneurysm (bulging and weakening of the major artery in the body) Bowel blockage or obstruction Cancer of the stomach, colon (large bowel), and other organs Cholecystitis (inflammation of the gallbladder) with or without gallstones.
140	 Depression is one of the most common mental disorders in the U.S. It causes severe symptoms that affect how you feel, think, and handle daily activities. Risk factors for depression are family history, life experiences, and environment. Depression can co-occur with other serious medical illnesses, such as diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and Parkinsons disease. People who have severely disturbed sleep may need to have testing to distinguish sleep disorders from depression.. Postpartum depression is much more serious than the baby blues (relatively mild depressive and anxiety symptoms that typically clear. within two weeks after delivery) that many women experience after giving birth. The feelings of extreme sadness, anxiety, and exhaustion that accompany postpartum. depression may make it difficult for these new mothers to complete daily care activities for themselves and/or for their babies. For older adults who experience depression for the first time later in life, other factors may be at play. Depression may be related to changes that occur in the brain and body as a person ages. Certain medicines and some health problems (such as viruses or a thyroid disorder) can cause the same symptoms as depression. Talk to your doctor or nurse if you have symptoms of depression. The doctor, nurse, or mental health professional may order lab tests on a sample of your blood or urine and do a regular checkup to rule out other problems that could be causing your symptoms. A person diagnosed with persistent depressive disorder may have episodes of major depression along with periods of less severe symptoms. Persistent depressive disorder (also called dysthymia) is a depressed mood that lasts for at least two years at least at least one in every two years. It is now recognized as occurring in children and adolescents, although it sometimes presents with more prominent irritability than low mood. Winter depression, typically accompanied by social withdrawal, increased sleep, and weight gain, predictably returns every year in seasonal affective disorder. However, laboratory tests may help a doctor determine whether depression is caused by a hormonal or other physical disorder. People with bipolar disorder experience episodes of extremely low moods that meet the criteria for major depression (called bipolar depression) Some types of depression have been added to the diagnostic classification of the DSM-5. These include disruptive mood regulation in children, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) and prediagnosed adolescents and pre-diagnosed pre- Diagnosis of depression (PDD)
141	FLUAD and FLUAD Quadrivalent are licensed only for persons aged 65 years and older. One other flu vaccine is licensed specifically for people 65 and over. The high-dose flu vaccine contains four times the amount of antigen as the standard-dose inactivated flu vaccine. It has been associated with a stronger immune response following vaccination and better effectiveness than the regular dose flu vaccine in older people in a two-season randomized trial. It is not recommended to use all flu vaccines at the same time.
142	Gestational diabetes occurs when your body can't make the extra insulin needed during pregnancy. Insulin, a hormone made in your pancreas, helps your body use glucose for energy and helps control your blood glucose levels. Gestational diabetes is usually diagnosed in the 24th to 28th week of pregnancy. Having a family history of diabetes makes it more likely that a woman will develop gestational diabetes, which suggests that genes play a role. Gaining too much weight during pregnancy may also be a factor. Too much glucose in your blood is not good for you or your baby. You can protect your own and your baby's health by taking action right away to manage your blood sugar levels, such as changing your diet and exercising. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90 or visit a local Samaritans branch, see www.samaritans.org for details.
143	Metoprolol may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away. Know which other medications and foods you need to avoid. Ask your health care provider or pharmacist if you have questions. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online (http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch) or by phone (1-800-332-1088) Click here for more information about the FDA's MedWatch program and how to report side effects of drugs you are taking or to get information on how to get help with a prescription or over-the-counter drug. For confidential support, call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch, or see www.samaritans.org for details. In the U.S., call the National Suicide Prevention Line on 1- 800-273-8255.
144	Lactic acid is produced when oxygen levels, become low in cells. The most common cause of lactic acidosis is severe medical illness. Intense exercise or convulsions can cause temporary cause the condition. Certain diseases can also cause the Condition including: AIDS Alcoholism Cancer Cirrhosis Cyanide poisoning Kidney failure Respiratory failure Sepsis (severe infection) Some medicines can rarely cause lactic Acidosis: Certain inhalers used to treat asthma or COPD Epinephrine An antibiotic called linezolid Metformin, used to treats diabetes (most often when overdosed) One type of medicine used to Treat HIV infection Propofol. The main treatment for lacticacidosis is to correct the medical problem that causes it.
145	Saturated fat and cholesterol in the food you eat make your blood cholesterol level rise. Saturated fat is the main problem, but cholesterol in foods also matters. There are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available, including Statins, which block the liver from making cholesterol. Bile acid sequestrants decrease the amount of fat absorbed from food.
148	Heart attacks are a leading killer of both men and women in the United States. Half of those who die do so within one hour of the start of symptoms and before reaching the hospital. Prompt treatment of a heart attack can help prevent or limit damage to the heart and prevent sudden death. Angina is a recurring pain or discomfort in the chest that happens when some part of the heart does not receive enough blood. People with angina may have a hard time telling the difference between angina and heart attack symptoms. Call 9-1-1 for an ambulance right away -- within 5 minutes. They carry drugs and equipment that can help your medical condition. If a blood clot suddenly blocks a coronary artery, it cuts off most or all blood supply. oxygen aspirin to prevent further blood clotting heart medications, such as nitroglycerin pain relief treatments defibrillators that can restart the heart if it stops beating. If blood flow in the blocked artery can be restored quickly, permanent heart damage may be prevented. If you have chest pressure, shortness of breath, and a tired feeling if you're having a heart problem, chew on an aspirin tablet. You may have mild symptoms or none at all (silent heart attack) Heart attack treatment works best when it's given right after symptoms occur. Talk to your doctor about making an emergency action plan, and discuss it with your family. The emergency plan should include - warning signs or symptoms, instructions for accessing emergency medical services in your community, and steps you can take while waiting for medical help to arrive. Important information to take along with you to the hospital, including a list of medications that you take or that you are allergic to, and name and number of whom you should contact if you go to a hospital.
151	A vegetarian diet does not include any meat, poultry, or seafood. It is a meal plan made up of foods that come mostly from plants. These include fruits, vegetables, dried beans and peas, grains, seeds and nuts. There is no single type of vegetarian diet. Instead, vegetarian eating patterns usually fall into the following groups: The vegan diet, which excludes all meat and animal products. The lacto vegetarian diet,. which includes plant foods plus dairy products. And the lacto-ovo vegetarian, which includes both dairy products and. eggs. People who follow vegetarian diets can get all the nutrients they need. However, they must be careful to eat a wide variety of foods to meet their nutritional needs. Nutrients vegetarians may need to focus on include protein, iron, calcium, zinc and vitamin B12. Include a protein source with all meals. If needed, take supplements if your diet lacks certain vitamins and minerals. Learn to read the Nutrition Facts Label on food packages. The label tells you the ingredients and nutrition contents of the food product. Choose fortified foods, such as cereals, breads, soy or almond milk, and fruits juices to get a full range of nutrients. If you follow a more restrictive diet, you may want to work with a dietitian to make sure you are getting enough nutrients.
152	Cri du chat syndrome is caused by a missing piece of chromosome 5. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family. About 10 percent of people with cri-du-chat syndrome inherit the chromosome abnormality from an unaffected parent. An infant with this syndrome may have a round face, small jaw, wide nose, widely separated eyes, crossed eyes (strabismus), and abnormally shaped ears set low in the head. Webbed fingers and toes (syndactyly) and heart defects are common. There are significant limitations in mental and physical development. Many children with the syndrome survive to adulthood but have substantial disabilities. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. A small number of cases occur when a parent passes a different, rearranged form of the chromosome to their child. The syndrome is rare. Most cases of cri duchat syndrome are not inherited. The symptoms of the syndrome include a characteristic high-pitched, mewing cry that sounds like a kitten crying. The cry may be heard immediately after birth, lasts several weeks, and then disappears.
153	Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is a chronic, slow-growing lymphoproliferative disorder. It usually affects older adults and is primarily found in the bone marrow, although lymph nodes and the spleen may be involved. Affected individuals have a high level of an antibody called immunoglobulin M (IgM) in their blood, which can cause thickening of the blood. Common symptoms include weakness, appetite loss and weight loss. Other symptoms may include peripheral neuropathy, fever, Raynaud's phenomenon, and mental status changes. Treatment is often reserved for those with symptoms and may include various medications including corticosteroids, alkylating agents, biologic response modifiers and purine analogues. Some affected individuals have elevated levels of IgM and lymphoplasmacytic cells but no symptoms of the condition. In these cases, the disease is usually found incidentally by a blood test taken for another reason. For example, doctors may check a blood sample to determine if the numbers of red and white blood cells and platelets are normal. An examination of a urine sample may show Bence Jones proteins (pieces of abnormal antibodies). A bone marrow biopsy may reveal an increased number of lymphocytes and plasma cells, which helps confirm the diagnosis of Waldenstrm macrogLobeinemia. The most common known genetic change associated with this condition is a mutation in the MYD88 gene, which is found in more than 90 percent of affected individuals. The cause of the disorder is not known, but environmental, genetic, and viral factors have been suggested. The mutations that cause this condition are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in the abnormal blood cells. The overproduction of this large protein is how the condition got its name ("macrogLobulinesia") is known as cryoglobulins. The excess IgM can thicken blood and impair circulation, causing a condition known as hyperviscosity syndrome. This can lead to bleeding in the nose or mouth, blurring or loss of vision, headache, dizziness, and difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia)
155	Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a disease characterized by deterioration or breakdown of the macula, which is responsible for sharp, central vision. The wet form of AMD is associated with severe vision loss that can worsen rapidly. AMD is a leading cause of vision loss in Americans 60 and older. Risk factors for AMD are: Family history of AMD Being White Cigarette smoking High-fat diet Being a woman are all risk factors for age-related macular degeneration. You need central vision to see objects clearly and to do tasks such as reading and driving. There are two types of AMD: wet and dry. Dry AMD typically affects vision in both eyes, although vision loss often occurs in one eye before the other. In severe cases, it can lead to blindness. Certain vitamins may help slow vision loss from AMD. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90 or visit a local Samaritans branch, see www.samaritans.org for details. In the U.S. call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255 or visit www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org. In Europe, call the European Association for Suicide Prevention on 0800 515-9255 or go to http://www.suicidesprevention.org/. In the UK, contact the National Institute for Health and Welfare (NICE) on 01457 909090 or www.nhs.uk/suicide/prevalence.
158	Stool that comes from your ileostomy is thin or thick liquid, or it may be pasty. Foods you eat, medicines you take, and other things may change how thick or thin your stool is. You will need to empty the pouch 5 to 8 times a day. Some foods will loosen your stools and can increase output after you eat them. Call your provider if: Your stoma is swelling and is more than a half inch (1 centimeter) larger than normal You have a discharge from the stoma that smells bad. You have any signs of being dehydrated (there is not enough water in your body). Some foods that may block your stoma are raw pineapple, nuts and seeds, celery, popcorn, corn, dried fruits (such as raisins), mushrooms, chunky relishes, coconut, and some Chinese vegetables. Some signs of blockage are sudden cramping in your belly, a swollen stoma, nausea (with or without vomiting), and sudden increase of very watery output. Try to eat foods that have potassium and sodium every day to keep your potassium and Sodium levels from getting too low.
160	Diabetes is a disease caused by high levels of blood sugar (glucose) in your body. There are two major types of diabetes: type 1 and type 2. The causes and risk factors are different for each type. Testing the types and levels of antibodies in the blood can help determine whether a person has type 1 diabetes, LADA, or another type of diabetes. Weight loss can help control type 2 diabetes so that you are healthier. But, obesity and smoking do not always cause diabetes. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. A chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. For people who inherit two copies of the variants, the risk of developingtype 2 diabetes is about 80 percent higher than for those who do not carry the gene variant. However, even in those with the variant, diet and physical activity leading to weight loss help delay diabetes, according to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a major clinical trial involving people at high risk. Single gene defects lead to specific forms of diabetes called maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. A virus cannot cause diabetes on its own, but people are sometimes diagnosed withtype 1 diabetes during or after a viral infection, suggesting a link between the two. For example, breastfed infants and infants receiving vitamin D supplements may have a reduced risk of becoming diabetes-stricken. Early exposure to cows milk and cereal proteins may increase risk. In the past, type1 diabetes was called juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) may be a slowly developing kind of type 1 Diabetes is caused by an infection or another trigger causes the body to mistakenly attack the beta cells in the pancreas that make insulin.
161	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) belongs to a group of diseases known as non-Hodgkins lymphomas (NHL) In MCL, there are cancerous B-cells within a region of the lymph node known as the mantle zone. MCL accounts for 6% of all NHL's and is mostly found in males during their early 60s. More than one half of people with BL can be cured with intensive chemotherapy. Chemotherapy may cure many types of high-grade lymphomas. In the case of advanced stage lymphoma, chemotherapy with immuno-chemotherapy should be offered (rituximab combined with CHOP). In cases of chemosensitive relapse, treatment can be intensified. Follicular lymphoma is located primarily in the lymph nodes, but can also involve the spleen, bone marrow, peripheral blood and Waldeyer's ring. Symptoms appear at an advanced stage of the disease and can include fever, night sweats and weight loss. At diagnosis, patients usually present with adenopathy and, in 50% of cases, splenomegaly. However, the majority of people treated with aggressive therapy achieve long-term remission.[5] In general, children with BL have better survival rates than adults with BL. The prognosis in children correlates with the extent of disease at the time of diagnosis. The outlook is poor for both children and adults if BL returns after improvement (relapses) or does not go into remission as a result of the first cycle of chemotherapy.[9][2] MCLs are slow-growing cancers, the cancer is usually widespread by the time it is diagnosed. The median age at diagnosis is 60-65 years.
165	Elbow pain can be caused by many problems. Rest your elbow. Elevate your elbow by raising it above the level of your heart. Ice your elbow for 15 to 20 minutes at a time, 3 to 4 times a day. Treatment depends on the cause, but may involve: Antibiotics Corticosteroid shots Manipulation Pain medicine Physical therapy Surgery (last resort) is an option for people with elbow pain. The pain is due to a direct elbow injury. You have fever or swelling and redness of the elbow. Your elbow is locked and can't straighten or bend. Gently try to move the elbow and increase your range of motion. If this hurts or you cannot moving the elbow, call your health care provider. If you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney or liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past, talk with your provider before using these medicines. You can buy these pain medicines at the store. They can help with pain, but not swelling. They are available in the U.S. and Canada for about $4.99 per pill. They include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn)
166	Diagnosis of dry eye requires a comprehensive eye evaluation. Your eye care professional may order a tearing test to find out if your eyes are producing enough tears to keep them moist. Clear Eyes¬Æ Pure Relief‚Ñ¢ for DRY EYES Glycerin / Lubricant Eye Drops 0.34 FL OZ (10 mL) for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye. Murine Tears’ Original Natural Tears Formula? Moisture Enriched? Eye Doctor Recommended 0.5 fl oz. (15mL) for Dry EYES L lubricant eye drops.
169	Testicular torsion causes: Severe pain in one testicle and sometimes in the belly area. Less common causes include a hernia in the groin (inguinal hernia) Infection of the testis (orchitis), usually caused by mumps or another virus. Pain from a disorder in the abdomen (such as a kidney stone or appendicitis) Dangerous disorders that sometimes cause scrotal pain include a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.
170	Angelman syndrome is caused by the loss of function of a gene called UBE3A. Both copies of this gene are turned on (active) in many of the body's tissues. In certain areas of the brain, however, only the copy inherited from a person's mother (the maternal copy) is active. Several different genetic mechanisms can inactivate or delete the maternal copy of the U BE3A gene. Angelman syndrome can also be caused by a chromosomal rearrangement called a translocation, or by a mutation or other defect in the region of DNA that controls activation of the gene. Most cases occur when a segment of the maternal chromosome 15 containing this gene is deleted. In a small percentage of cases, the disorder results when a person inherits two copies of chromosome 15 from his or her father (paternal copies) instead of one copy from each parent. The life expectancy of people with this condition appears to be nearly normal. Most affected children also have recurrent seizures (epilepsy) and a small head size (microcephaly). Delayed development becomes noticeable by the age of 6 to 12 months, and other common signs and symptoms usually appear in early childhood. Children with Angelman Syndrome typically have a happy, excitable demeanor with frequent smiling, laughter, and hand-flapping movements. With age, people with the condition become less excitable, and the sleeping problems tend to improve. However, affected individuals continue to have intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, and seizures throughout their lives. Anticonvulsant medicines help control seizures. Behavior therapy helps manage hyperactivity, sleep problems, and development problems. Occupational and speech therapy manage speech problems and teach living skills. Physical therapy helps with walking and movement problems.
174	Scabies is an itchy skin condition caused by the microscopic mite Sarcoptes scabei. Symptoms are - Pimple-like irritations or a rash - Intense itching, especially at night - Sores caused by scratching Your health care provider diagnoses scabies by looking at the skin rash and finding burrows in the skin. Crusted scabies (also called Norwegian scabies) is an infestation characterized by thick crusts of skin that contain large numbers of scabies mites and eggs. Ivermectin, a drug used to treat parasitic infections, is commonly used for treatment. Scabies is very contagious and can spread both by direct skin-to-skin contact and through contaminated items such as clothing, bedding, and furniture. It's caused by tiny insects called mites. The mites get into your skin and lay eggs and spread easily to other people through physical contact The rash itches very badly Doctors treat scabies with a medicated cream. The infected person's clothes, towels, and towels should be washed in hot water and dried in a hot dryer. Treatment is also recommended for household members and sexual partners. It is common all over the world, and can affect anyone. You cannot get scabies from a pet. Pets get a different mite infection called mange.
175	Treatment for hair loss depends on the cause. In some cases, treating the underlying cause will correct the problem. Wigs often offer the best treatment for temporary hair loss (for example, that caused by chemotherapy). Medicine for male and female pattern baldness, which can take 8 to 12 months to work. Hair transplants to move hair follicles from a hairy area of your scalp to your bald area.
176	Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited eye diseases that affect the light-sensitive part of the eye (retina) RP causes cells in the retina to die, causing progressive vision loss. Treatment options to slow the progression of vision loss include light avoidance, use of low-vision aids, and vitamin A supplementation. Researchers are working to develop new treatment options for the future such as gene therapy, stem cell transplantation and prosthetic implants. FDA-Approved Treatments The medication(s) listed below have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as orphan products for treatment of this condition. Learn more orphan products. Back to Mail Online home. back to the page you came from. The first sign of RP usually is night blindness. As the condition progresses, affected individuals develop tunnel vision (loss of peripheral vision), and eventually loss of central vision. Retinal transplantation would involve the injection and integration of stem cells into the retina, in hopes these cells will replace dead cells and provide the missing enzymes and chemicals needed for sight. Gene therapy could potentially be used when the disease-causing mutation is known and would aim to restore production of the missing or abnormal protein. Studies with retinal prosthetics have tested devices that transform light into electrical signals that can be sent directly to the inner retina and brain, avoiding the diseased parts of the outer retina. People who have lost all vision or almost all vision can be given a surgically implanted computer chip in the eye, which can restore some perception of light and shapes. Some practitioners also consider vitamin A as a possible treatment option. However, taking too much vitamin A can be toxic and the effects of vitamin A on the disease appear to be relatively weak.[4] Studies have explored potential treatment with DHA, an omega-3 fatty acid naturally found in fish. While DHA is known to play a structural role in retinal cells, more research is needed to determine whether supplements should be recommended. Vitamin A palmitate may help slow the progress of the disorder in some people. Sometimes, drugs called carbonic anhydrase inhibitors are given by mouth or as eye drops.
178	Leg pain can be due to a muscle cramp (also called a charley horse) Common causes of cramps include: Dehydration or low amounts of potassium, sodium, calcium, or magnesium in the blood Medicines (such as diuretics and statins) Muscle fatigue or strain from overuse, too much exercise, or holding a muscle in the same position for a long time. An injury can also cause leg pain from: A torn or overstretched muscle (strain) Hairline crack in the bone (stress fracture) Often, drinking water will ease the cramping. However, water alone does not always help. Salt tablets or sports drinks, which also replenish lost minerals, can be helpful. Other tips for relieving muscle cramps: Change your workouts so that you are exercising within your ability. Drink plenty of fluids while exercising and increase your potassium intake (orange juice and bananas are great sources of potassium). Leg cramps are common. The most common causes are benign leg cramps and exercise-associated cramps. Stretching and not consuming caffeine can help prevent muscle cramped. Drug therapy is not usually recommended to prevent muscleCramps. Some disorders cause symptoms that resemble muscle cramping, such as Inflamed tendon (tendinitis) Shin splints (pain in the front of the leg from over use) Dystonias are involuntary muscle contractions, but they usually last longer and occur more often than cramps, and tend to affect other muscles, including any limb muscles as well as those of the back, neck, and voice. Other common causes of leg pain include: Peripheral artery disease (PAD), which causes a problem with blood flow in the legs (this type of pain is generally felt when exercising or walking)
180	A doctor usually suspects hemorrhagic colitis when a person has bloody diarrhea. To make the diagnosis, a doctor has stool specimens tested for strains of E. coli or the toxins they produce. Other tests, such as sigmoidoscopy, may be done if a doctor suspects that other diseases may be cause of colitis. Ulcerative colitis can usually be controlled with medicines. A doctor may suspect ischemic colitis on the basis of pain and bleeding, especially in a person older than 60. It is important for doctors to distinguish acute mesia colitis from acute meschemic ischemia, a more dangerous condition in which part of the intestine is completely and irreversibly blocked. People with ulceratives colitis should talk with their health care provider about how often they should get screened for colon cancer. The disease affects the entire colon and affects the liver, especially if it is ongoing for at least 8 years. People who receive ongoing treatment and remain in remission may reduce their chances of developing colon cancer, according to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) The NIH recommends colonoscopy every 1 to 3 years for people who have the disease in one-third or more of their colon or who have had it for 8 years or more. For more information, visit www.nih.org or call the National Institute of Health and Human Services (NICE) on 1-800-273-8255. For confidential support, call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch, or see www.samaritans.org, or click here for details. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) has a helpline for people with colon cancer and other cancer-related conditions. For information on colon cancer screening, visit http://www.nci.org/colon-cancer-screening-and-rehabilitation/. For more info on how to get colon cancer screenings, visit www.coloncancer.org.
181	The most common type of headache is tension headache. It is likely caused by tight muscles in your shoulders, neck, scalp, and jaw. Sinus headache is due to swelling in the sinus passages behind the cheeks, nose, and eyes. Ear pain in adults is less likely to be from an ear infection. They often occur from overuse of pain medicines. The pain that you feel in the ear may be coming from another place, such as your teeth, the joint in your jaw (temporomandibular joint), or your throat. The eustachian tube runs from the middle part of each ear to the back of the throat. This tube drains fluid that is made in the middle ear. If the tube becomes blocked, fluid can build up. This may lead to pressure behind the eardrum or anEar infection. An earache is a sharp, dull, or burning pain in one or both ears. It may last a short time or be ongoing. Other causes may include: Ear canal irritation from cotton-tipped swabs Soap or shampoo staying in theEar. Ear injury from pressure changes (from high altitudes and other causes) Object stuck in the Ear or buildup of ear wax Hole in the Eardrum Sinus infection Sore throat Temporom andibular Joint syndrome (TMJ) Tooth infection Ear pain is more common in children.
182	A knee sprain is a tear in one or more of the ligaments that hold your knee in place. The most common type of arthritis of the knee is osteoarthritis. Studies of the various forms of arthritis are helping doctors better understand these diseases and develop treatments to stop or slow their progression and damage to joints, including the knees. Follow these general tips to help relieve and prevent knee pain: Always warm up before exercising and cool down after exercising. Before exercising or participating in sports, warm up by walking or riding a stationary bicycle. Thorough treatment of fungal infections elsewhere in the body may help prevent fungal arthritis. Some knee problems, such as those resulting from an accident, can't be prevented. However, people can prevent many knee problems by doing the following: Knee for a seriously knee damage, which can include: K knee replacement. Knee replacement for a serious knee injury that can include a torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) or medial collateral ligaments (MCL) knee replacement to prevent or slow further damage to the cartilage in the kneecap. The goal of this surgery is to prevent the damage caused by cartilage damage. This will help prevent knee arthritis. Overusing your knee can trigger knee problems that cause pain. A fluid-filled swelling behind the knee that may occur with swelling (inflammation) from other causes, like arthritis, can also cause knee pain. In the knee joint, this swelling may be caused by a number of different conditions, including: arthritis, knee ligament damage, and knee osteosarcoma, which is a type of bone infection that causes swelling and pain in the knee. It is possible to treat knee pain by using painkillers and/or anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen, Advil, and Advil.
183	 Bartholin abscess is the buildup of pus that forms a lump (swelling) in one of the Bartholin glands. Treatment involves surgery to open and drain the abscess. Surgery is usually done with local numbing medicine, along with medicine to make you sleepy. After surgery, you may need warm sitz baths (sitting in a tub of warm water) The abscesses may return in few cases. It is important to treat any vaginal infection that is diagnosed at the same time as theAbscess. Soaking in warm water 4 times a day for several days can ease the discomfort. Drinking fluids and eating foods with lots of fiber can also help. Eating soft or liquid foods until abscess has healed is a good way to help the area heal. If abscess collection is deep, you might need to stay in the hospital longer for pain control and nursing care of the Abscess drainage site. For more information, visit BartholinGland.org.uk or go to www.bartholin-gland.co.uk for more information on how to treat an abscess or a vaginal infection. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.samaritans.org for details.
184	Gastrostomy feeding tube (G-tube) insertion is done in part using a procedure called endoscopy. This is a way of looking inside the body using a flexible tube with a small camera on the end. Stitches are special threads that are sewn through the skin at an injury site to bring a wound together. Care for your stitches and wound as follows: Keep the area clean and dry for the first 24 to 48 hours after stitches have been placed. If there was a bandage over the stitches, replace it with a new clean bandage and antibiotic treatment, if instructed to do so. Your provider should also tell you when you need to have a wound checked and the stitches removed. If not, contact your provider for an appointment.
185	Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a type of chronic pain that affects your face. It causes extreme, sudden burning or shock-like pain. The pain is typically felt on one side of the jaw or cheek. Episodes can last for days, weeks, or months at a time and then disappear for months or years. The presumed cause of TN is a blood vessel pressing on the trigeminal nerve in the head as it exits the brainstem. Tumors and multiple sclerosis can also cause TN, but in some cases the cause is unknown. There is no single test to diagnose TN, and it can be hard to diagnose, since many other conditions can cause facial pain. Treatment options include medicines, surgery, and complementary techniques. TN occurs most often in people over age 50, but it can occur at any age. It may be part of the normal aging process but it is the associated with another disorder, such as multiple sclerosis or other disorders characterized by damage to the myelin sheath that covers certain nerves. Although sometimes debilitating, the disorder is not life-threatening. But the longer you have it, the less often it goes away. TN usually affects people over 50, especially women. When TN affects people younger than 40, it is often due to MS or a tumor. TN may be caused by: Multiple sclerosis (MS) or other diseases that damage the protective covering myelin of the nerves Pressure on the nerve from a swollen blood vessel or tumor Injury to the nerve such as from trauma to the face or from oral or sinus surgery
188	Many older people have some degree of hypothyroidism. Typical symptoms, such as weight gain, muscle cramps, tingling of the hands, and the inability to tolerate cold, are less common among older people. Iodine is an essential mineral for the thyroid. People with autoimmune thyroid disease may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Women need more iodine when they are pregnantabout 250 micrograms a day because the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins. Choosing iodized salt salt supplemented with iodine over plain salt and prenatal vitamins containing iodine will ensure this need is met. It's important to talk to your doctor about medicines that interfere with absorbing thyroid hormone. Such medicines include iron, calcium, and some antacids. A screening test, in which blood levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone are measured, is important. The test should be done at age 65 even if people have no symptoms ofhypothyroidistism. After you start the pills, your doctor will gradually adjust the dose based on your TSH level. The treatment is to gradually increase the amount of thyroid hormone you are taking. For more information about iodine, visit www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/002421. http://www.nutrition.gov.gov/.
190	Usher syndrome is an inherited disease that causes serious hearing loss and retinitis pigmentosa. There are three types of Usher syndrome: people with type I are deaf from birth and have severe balance problems from a young age. People with type III are born with normal hearing and near-normal balance but develop vision problems and then hearing loss. If both parents are carriers of a mutated gene for Usher Syndrome, they will have a one-in-four chance of having a child with the disorder with each¬†birth. If a child is diagnosed with type 1 Usher. syndrome early on, before he or she loses the ability to see, that child is. more likely to benefit from the full spectrum of intervention strategies. that can help him or her participate more fully in life. The earlier that parents know if their child has Usher syndrom, the sooner that child can begin special educational training programs to manage the loss of hearing and. vision. To learn about clinical trials that include genetic testing, visit the Web site www.clinicaltrials.gov and type in the search term Usher genetic¬ testing. The National Deaf Institute on Deafness has more information on its Web site: www.deafness.org. For confidential support on suicide matters call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90 or visit a local Samaritans branch, see www.samaritans.org for details. For support in the U.S., call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255 or visit http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/. For information on suicide prevention in the UK, visit www.sussex.org/suicide-prevention. For more information about suicide prevention, go to www.suicides.org or visit the Suicide Prevention Helpline on 10/10/10 or www.SuicidePreventionHelpline.com. For help in the United States, call the Salvation Army on 1 (800) 273-TALK (8255). For help with suicide matters in the Philippines, visit http‚Äôs’s Samaritans’ website: http  www.sales Samaritans.com/SuicideHelplines.
191	 Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is a group of disorders in which skin blisters. Blisters and skin erosions form in response to minor injury or friction. Herlitz JEB is the more severe form of the condition. It causes blistering over large regions of the body. The milder form of EB is called non-Herlitz. JEB may be limited to the hands, feet, knees, and elbows. Other treatments for this condition may include: Medicines that suppress the immune system. Protein and gene therapy and the use of the drug interferon are being studied. Skin grafting in places where sores are deep. Dilation (widening) of the esophagus if there is a narrowing. Repair of hand deformities. Removal of any squamous cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) that develops. Follow these guidelines at home: Take good care of your skin to prevent infections. Follow your provider's advice if blistered areas become crusted or raw. Do exercises a physical therapist shows you to help keep your joints and muscles mobile. Choose soft foods and avoid nuts, chips, and other crunchy foods if you have sores in your mouth. You may also need to take medicine if you get a candida (yeast) infection in the mouth or throat. Your provider will let you know if you need a bandage or dressing, and if so, what type to use. You might need regular whirlpool therapy and to apply antibiotic ointments to wound-like areas. If you have a lot of skin injury, you may need extra calories and protein to help your skin heal. It is best to see a dentist who has experience treating people with EB.
192	Acupuncture may cause bruising or bleeding in people who have severe bleeding disorders or who take blood-thinning drugs. Many adults seek alternative ways of treating arthritis, such as special diets, supplements, acupuncture, massage, or even magnetic jewelry or mattress pads. If your childs doctor feels the approach has value and is not harmful, you can incorporate it into the treatment plan. DMARDs slow the progression of juvenile arthritis, but because they may take weeks or months to relieve symptoms, they often are taken with an NSAID. The placebo for acupuncture may involve using opaque sheaths containing a blunt needle or toothpick that is pressed against the skin but is not inserted, though this would still put pressure on acupuncture points. All children with juvenile arthritis need to have regular exams by an ophthalmologist (eye doctor) to detect eye inflammation. The specialist also may recommend using splints and other devices to help maintain normal bone and joint growth. The World Health Organization continues to investigate and explore the efficacy of acupuncture and other forms of alternative treatment for juvenile arthritis. If you have questions about acupuncture, contact the American College of Acupuncture at 1-800-273-8255 or go to www.acupuncture.org for more information. For confidential support, call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.samaritans.org, or click here for details. For support in the U.S., call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at (800) 273-TALK (8255) or visit http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/.
194	How well a person with scoliosis does depends on the type, cause, and severity of the curve. You may need surgery if the spine curve is severe or getting worse very quickly. The more severe the curve, the greater the likelihood of it worsening. Scoliosis is most common in late childhood and the early teens. Symptoms include leaning to one side and having uneven shoulders and hips. WorseningScoliosis may eventually cause permanent problems, such as noticeable deformities or chronic pain. It can also affect internal organsfor example, deforming and damaging the lungs. Most people with idiopathic scoliotic do not need treatment. Congenital scolia is difficult to treat and usually requires many surgeries. The earlier treatment is begun, the better the chance of preventing a severe deformity. Treatment depends on your age, how much more you're likely to grow, and how much curving there is. If your body is still growing, treatment depends on whether the curve is temporary or permanent. People with mildscoliosis might only need checkups to see if the curves are getting worse. They may have another serious disorder such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy, so their goals are much different. Often, the goal of surgery is simply to allow a child to be able to sit upright in a wheelchair. Doctors use your medical and family history, a physical exam, and imaging tests to diagnose scliosis. Mild scoliosia usually causes no symptoms. Sometimes the back becomes sore or stiff after the child sits or stands for a long period of time.
195	Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints. A joint is the area where two bones meet. Osteoarthritis usually comes with age and most often affects the fingers, knees, and hips. Reactive Arthritis is pain or swelling in a joint that is caused by an infection in your body. Rheumatoid arthritis happens when the bodys own defense system doesnt work properly. Gout is caused. by crystals that build up in the joints. It usually affects the big toe, but many other joints may be affected. Juvenile Ar arthritis is the term used to describe arthritis in children.
197	Mal means bad. A problem somewhere in your gastrointestinal (GI) tract keeps you from absorbing one or more kinds of nutrients. Malabsorption can be caused by diseases, surgery on your intestines, or intestinal infections. Different causes of malabsorption need different treatments, but doctors usually try to adjust your diet to relieve your symptoms. A high-calorie diet may be tried. Medicines to slow down the normal movement of the intestine can be tried to allow food to remain in the intestine longer. If the body is not able to absorb enough nutrients, total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is tried. It will help you or your child get nutrition from a special formula through a vein in the body. It should supply: Key vitamins and minerals, such as iron, folic acid, and vitamin B12. Enough carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. If needed, injections of some vitamins and Minerals or special growth factors will be given. Those with damage to the pancreas may need to take pancreatic enzymes. Your provider will prescribe these if necessary. If you have a vitamin deficiency, you'll take extra vitamins. After a while, you may get vitamin deficiencies, which may give you a low blood count and feel make you feel sick. Doctors often have to do stool and blood tests and sometimes look in your stomach and intestines with a flexible scope (endoscopy) Sometimes, you can also eat and drink while getting nutrition from TPN. For example, tropical sprue and Whipple disease are treated with antibiotics. In general, if you have trouble with only certain foods, doctors will have you avoid them.
202	An abdominal aortic aneurysm is a bulge in the part of the aorta that passes through your belly. It occurs due to weakness in the wall of the artery. About 20% of AAAs eventually rupture and are often fatal. Aneurysms that are large or are growing need surgery to prevent them from bursting. If you have bleeding inside your body from an AAAs, you will need surgery right away. The outcome is often good if you have surgery to repair the aneury before it ruptures. Only about 1 in 5 people survive a ruptured abdominal aneurYSm. The exact cause of an AAA is unknown. Factors that can increase your risk of having this problem include: Smoking High blood pressure Male gender Genetic factors An AAAs is most often seen in males over age 60 who have one or more risk factors. They may occur at any age, but are most common in men between 50 and 80 years of age. Many people with an AAA have no symptoms, but some people have a pulsing sensation in the abdomen and/or pain in the back. When more than one family member is affected, it may be considered "Families with an abdominal aortsurgery. "[3] Treatment may include blood pressure medications, or surgery to Repair the anuerysm. Endovascular repair can sometimes be done for a leaking or bleeding aneurynym. You and your provider must decide if the risk ofhaving surgery is smaller than therisk of bleeding if you do not have surgery. Most of the time, surgery is done if theAneurysms is bigger than 2 inches (5 centimeters) across or growing quickly. The goal is to do surgery before complications develop. The abnormal vessel is replaced with a graft made of man-made material. This procedure can be done without making a large cut in your abdomen, so you may recover more quickly. You're more likely to have an AAA if: You're a man You're between the ages of 50 to 80 Someone in your family had one You have high blood pressure You smoke.
203	Acute pancreatitis occurs suddenly and usually goes away in a few days with treatment. Chronic pancreatitis does not heal or improve. It gets worse over time and leads to permanent damage. Common symptoms are severe pain in the upper abdomen, nausea, and vomiting. Treatment for acute or chronic pancreatitis may include a hospital stay to treat dehydration with intravenous (IV) fluids and, if you can swallow them, fluids by mouth pain medicine, and antibiotics by mouth or through an IV if you have an infection in your pancreas. A low-fat diet, or nutrition by feeding tube or IV ifyou can't eat. Inserting a tube through the nose or mouth to remove the contents of the stomach (nasogastric suctioning) may sometimes be done. If your pancreatitis is more severe, your treatment may also include:Surgery. Your doctor may recommend surgery to remove your gallbladder, called cholecystectomy. If you have severe pancreatitis, your doctor may advise delaying surgery to first treat complications. Stopping food or fluid by mouth to limit the activity of the pancrea. Starting an oral diet and slowly starting an Oral diet. Getting enough vitamins and calcium in the diet. Limiting caffeine. The health care provider may prescribe pancreatic enzymes. The enzymes will help you digest food better, gain weight and reduce diarrhea. A nutritionist can help you create a diet that includes: Drinking plenty of liquids Limiting fats Eating small, frequent meals (this helps reduce digestive symptoms) Getting enough minerals and supplements such as calcium or as extra supplements. Avoid smoking and drinking alcoholic beverages, even if your Pancreatitis is mild. Treatment may include: Pain medicines or a surgical nerve block to relieve pain Taking insulin to control blood sugar (glucose) level
204	Sleep apnea is when your breathing slows or stops for a short time while you're sleeping and then restarts. Most people who have sleep apnea don't know they have it because it only occurs during sleep. A CPAP machine pushes air into your throat through a mask. If you're not treated, you have an increased risk of high blood pressure, stroke, and heart disease. Stop smoking, drink alcohol, or take drugs that cause drowsiness before bed. Sleeping on the side or elevating the head of the bed can help reduce snoring. Some people may benefit from taking modafinil, which is a mild stimulant used to treat daytime sleepiness. Acetazolamide can help people with central apnea caused by high altitude and possibly even people at sea level. Removable oral appliances, fitted by dentists, can help relieve obstructive sleepApnea (and snoring) in people with mild to moderate sleep apneas. Most appliances separate the jaws and push the lower jaw forward so the tongue move backward to the throat. Oxygen delivered by nasal prongs (not under pressure) may reduce episodes of apnea in people whose levels of blood oxygen become low while sleeping. The animation shows how the airway can collapse and block air flow to the lungs. Use the buttons in the lower right corner to pause, restart, or replay the animation, or use the scroll bar below the buttons to move through the frames. To treat obstructivesleep apnea, your doctor may: Give you a CPap machine to help you breathe while you sleep. GiveYou a mouthpiece that helps keep your airway open during sleep Sometimes do surgery on the back of your mouth to remove and reshape tissue. Surgically place a device to help keep yourAirway open in a person with obstructive Sleep apnea. The most common type of sleep Apnea is obstructive apnea and is more common in people who are overweight or obese. People with central Apnea of the Cheyne-Stokes type have fewer episodes of Apnea and a lower severity of heart failure with this treatment.
205	Follow your doctor's recommendation for treating the cause of the pain. For nonarthritis joint pain, both rest and exercise are important. Warm baths, massage, and stretching exercises should be used as often as possible. Aceteminophen (Tylenol) may help the soreness feel better. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen or naproxen may help relieve pain and swelling. Talk to your health care provider before giving aspirin or NSAIDs to children. Arthritis is joint inflammation that causes swelling, pain, and stiffness in the joints. The causes of the arthritis are different depending on whether the joints started hurting suddenly (acutely) or have been hurting for a long time (chronic). Sudden arthritis in more than one joint is most often caused by: Infection from a virus The start of a joint disorder or a flare up of a long-term joint disorder (such as rheumatoid arthritis)
206	If you have cataracts in both eyes, your doctor may suggest waiting at least 1 to 2 weeks between each surgery. Most people do well and recover quickly after cataract surgery. If a person has other eye problems, such as glaucoma or macular degeneration, the surgery may be more difficult or the outcome may not be as good. Check with your doctor before doing any strenuous activity, resuming sexual activity, or driving. Wearing dark sunglasses outside after you remove the patch is a good way to protect your eye from the sun. Try not to get soap and water in your eye when you are bathing or showering for the first few days. Light activities are best as you recover. If you need new glasses or contact lenses, you can usually have them fitted at that time. The lens is removed in one of the following ways: Phacoemulsification, Extracapsular extraction, Laser surgery or intraocular lens.
207	Symptoms of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome often include profound intellectual disability. Children may also have epilepsy, a broad or beaked nose, scalp defects, drooping upper eyelids (ptosis) and gaps or fissures (colobomas) of the iris. Motor skills such as sitting, standing, and walking are significantly delayed. Most affected children also have seizures, which may be resistant to treatment. Seizures tend to disappear with age. The long-term outlook depends on the specific features present and the severity of those features. The average life expectancy is unknown. Many people, in the absence of severe heart defects, chest infections, and uncontrollable seizures, survive into adulthood. The condition can also cause abnormalities of the eyes, heart, genitourinary tract, and brain. A condition called Pitt-Rogers-Danks syndrome has features that overlap with those ofWolf-Hirshhorn syndrome. Researchers now recognize that these two conditions are actually part of a single syndrome with variable signs and symptoms. Many affected children die during infancy. Many children have an immune deficiency, which means their body is less able to fight off infections. Muscle weakness may increase the risk of having chest infections and ultimately may reduce the life expectancy.
210	Dietary supplements are not regulated as drugs by the FDA. Manufacturers are not required to prove that supplements are safe and effective. The FDA does not evaluate the safety of the product before the supplement is sold. Just because you see a dietary supplement on a store shelf does not mean it is safe, that it does what the label says it will. Evidence about the safety and effectiveness of dietary supplements is increasing rapidly as more and more clinical studies are being done. Some supplements (for example, fish oil, chondroitin, glucosamine, St. John's wort) are proven to be safe and useful additions to standard drugs. Some ads for dietary supplements in magazines, online, or on TV seem to promise that these supplements will make you feel better, keep you from getting sick, or even help you live longer. Supplements may cost a lot, could be harmful, or simply might not be helpful. Do you wonder if you need a dietary supplements? Ask yourself why you think you might want to take a Dietary supplement. For more information, visit the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health. The Federal Trade Commission looks into reports of ads that might misrepresent what dietary supplements do. If your doctor recommends a dietarySupplement for you, make sure you're getting the brand recommended by the doctor and that you take it as directed. If the FDA receives reports of possible problems with a supplement, it will issue warnings about products that are clearly unsafe. The U.S. Pharmacopeia, NSF International, ConsumerLab.com, and the Natural Products Association, have their own "seals of approval" for dietary supplement.
211	Only someone who has had chickenpox -- or, rarely, has gotten chickenpox vaccine -- can get shingles. Shingles is far more common in people 50 years of age and older than in younger people. About half of all shingles cases are in adults age 60 or older. The chance of getting singles becomes much greater by age 70. People may have a harder time fighting off infections as they get older. It can cause burning, shooting pain, tingling, and/or itching, as well as a rash and blisters. For about 1 person in 5, severe pain can continue even long after the rash clears up. The risk of getting shedles increases as you age. The recombinant vaccine is preferred and is recommended for healthy people aged 50 or over. It is given in two doses, injected into a muscle. The doses are given 2 to 6 months apart and at least 2 months after the older (weakened live-virus) vaccine for people who have had that vaccine. Some people should not get shsles vaccine or should wait. A person should not receive the vaccine if he or she: - Has ever had a life-threatening allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of the vaccine. If you think it is a severe allergic reaction or other emergency that can't wait, call 9-1-1 or get the person to the nearest hospital. The vaccine is being closely monitored for unusual or severe problems, such as signs of a very high fever, or behavior changes. For people with a weak immune system or allergies to certain medicines, make sure to check with your doctor first. It's recommended that people get the vaccine at your doctor's office and at some pharmacies.
212	Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a rare, inherited immunodeficiency that affects certain white blood cells. People with this condition have immune systems that do not function properly, leaving the body vulnerable to chronic inflammation and frequent bacterial and fungal infections. The features of this condition usually develop in infancy or early childhood; however, milder forms may be diagnosed in the teen years or even in adulthood. The only cure for the disease is an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) Antibiotics and antifungal drugs to prevent and treat infections are usually also given regularly to help prevent infections. Interferon gamma (a drug that modifies the immune system), injected 3 times a week, can reduce the number and severity of infections. Granulocytes are a type of white blood cell that includes some phagagocytes. Stem cell transplants have cured some people with chronic granulOMatous. disease. The disease is caused by changes ( mutations ) in any one of five different genes. It is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive or X-linked recessive manner.[3] Treatment consists of continuous therapy with antibiotic and anti-fungal medications to treat and prevent infections, as well as regular check-ups to check for new infections and to monitor the progress of existing ones. It can take up to four years for a person to recover from a chronic bacterial or fungal infection, but with treatment, most affected individuals live into mid- to late adulthood. Some people with the disease may develop fungal pneumonia, called mulch pneumonitis, which causes fever and shortness of breath after exposure to decaying organic materials such as mulch, hay, or dead leaves. The skin, lungs, lymph nodes, mouth, nose, urinary tract, and intestines are also common areas of infection.
213	Bell palsy is sudden weakness on one side of your face. It happens when a nerve in your face (called the facial nerve) swells and gets squeezed. This nerve is called the facial orseventh cranial nerve. Damage to this nerve causes weakness or paralysis of these muscles. Paralysis means that you cannot use the muscles at all. Symptoms vary, but may include twitching, weakness, drooping eyelid or corner of the mouth, drooling, dry eye or mouth, impairment of taste, and excessive tearing in the eye. Treatment usually involves medicine called corticosteroids. Most people with Bell palsy get better within several months, even without treatment. Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve (decompression surgery) has not been shown to benefit most people with the disorder. Physical therapy, facial massage and acupuncture have also been used to treat Bell's palsy. Some people who have severe Bell. palsy and can't move oneSide of their face at all may not recover fully. If youve had symptoms for less than 48 hours, doctors may give you medicine called a cortICosteroid that can make full recovery. even more likely. The exact cause is unknown, but many researchers believe that a virus may lead to swelling of the 7th cranial. nerve. It may take weeks or even months for the muscles to get stronger, but most people recover completely, without treatment, in several months. The symptoms often begin to improve right away, but it may take a few weeks or months for them to get completely better. For more information, visit Bell Palsy.org.
215	The effectiveness of Ritalin LA for long-term use, i.e., for more than 2 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, the drug should be discontinued. If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse effects occur, reduce dosage, or, if necessary, discontinue the drug. Do not use RITALIN ¬Æ for a condition for which it was not prescribed. See ‚ÚÄôs method for heart rate correction was employed to derive the corrected QT interval (QTcF). The maximum mean prolongation of QTcf intervals was &lt;5 ms, and the upper limit of the 90% confidence interval was below 10 ms for all time matched comparisons versus placebo. See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients. Are you taking or have taken within the past 14 days an anti-depression medicine called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor or MAOI. are allergic to anything in Ritalsin? If so, contact your doctor or pharmacist at 1-800-273-TALK (8255) or go to http://www.pharmacydirect.com/Ritalsin/Medication-Guide/Ritalin-SR-Tablets-1-2-2.html. If you are taking or having a history of depression, contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1 (800) 273-8255 or visit http:// www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/. For confidential support on suicide matters call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90 or visit a local Samaritans branch, see www.samaritans.org for details.
217	Numbness results when one part of the pathway for sensation malfunctions, usually because of a disorder or drug. With numbness, you may not be able to: Feel a light touch Sense pain Tell hot from cold Sense vibration Know the position of the numb part of your body. Your health care provider should find and treat the cause of your numbness or tingling. Doctors may suggest ways to help ease symptoms and prevent other problems. The condition causing numbness is corrected or treated when possible. If your foot is numb, wear shoes and socks that fit well and check for pebbles or other things in your shoes before putting them on. Check your numb area for sores, redness, or swelling. If you have problems walking, getting physical therapy or using a cane or walker may help you walk safely and prevent falls. Talk with your doctor about whether it's safe for you to drive. For example, if you have carpal tunnel syndrome or low back pain, your doctor may recommend certain exercises. If people get numbness in the spinal cord, people get anxious when they feel and breathe too fast (hyperventilation). Numbness refers to complete and complete sensation or loss of sensation. It is often accompanied by abnormal sensations, such as tingled or numbness. Sometimes changes in vision or speech. Doctors ask the person to describe the numbness and other symptoms. Then doctors may ask specific questions: When numbness began How quickly it began Whether the person also has other symptoms such as weakness or paralysis, loss of bowel or bladder control, retention of urine, vision problems, difficulty swallowing, or deterioration of mental function. What they find during the history and physical examination often suggests a cause and the tests that may need to be done (see table Some Causes and Features of Numbedness). Doctors also ask whether the person has had a disorder that can cause numbness such as diabetes, chronic kidney disease, infections (such as HIV infection or Lyme disease), a stroke, or arthritis. Telling doctors which parts of the body are affected by the disorder helps identify the location of the malfunction, usually with nerve conduction studies and electromyography if the roots of the nerves are affected or MRI of the brain and spinal cord. Back and/or neck pain suggests osteoarthritis, a ruptured disk, or another disorder that puts pressure on the spinal Cord.
219	Pelvic muscle exercises (also known as Kegel exercises) work the muscles that you use to stop urinating. Biofeedback can be helpful when learning pelvic muscle exercises. Timed voiding may help you control your bladder. In timed voiding, you urinate on a set schedule, for example, every hour. Lifestyle changes may help with incontinence. Losing weight, quitting smoking, drinking less caffeine (found in coffee, tea, and many sodas), preventing constipation and avoiding lifting heavy objects may help. Choosing water instead of other drinks and limiting drinks before bedtime may also help. Read about this topic in Spanish. Lea sobre este tema en espanol. Click here to learn more about pelvic floor exercises and how to do them. Visit the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for more information on urinaryincontinence in men and urinary incontinent in women. CLICK HERE to read about urinary incentinence in women and men. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (ACOG) offers a range of services to help people manage their bladder, including bladder control products and other solutions, including adult diapers, furniture pads, urine deodorizing pills, and special skin cleansers that may make leaking urine bother you a little less. The ACOG also offers an online support group for people with bladder problems. CLICK here to go to the ACOG website.
220	Most girls go through puberty somewhere between being 8 to 15 years old. Puberty is a wide age range when puberty starts. Problems with puberty usually involve hormones. There are many different hormone problems that result in too few hormones so that puberty is delayed or doesn't start at all. Some kids in 7th grade still look like young children and others look really grown up.
226	Stroke is the number one cause of serious adult disability in the United States. Speech therapy helps stroke patients relearn language and speaking skills. People with dysarthria have trouble making certain sounds or words. Dysarthria can be caused by a stroke, a head injury, or brain surgery. With time and patience, a stroke survivor should be able to regain some, and sometimes all,language and speaking abilities. For most stroke patients, rehabilitation mainly involves physical therapy. The aim of physical therapy is to have the stroke patient relearn simple motor activities such as walking, sitting, standing, lying down, and the process of switching from one type of movement to another. Another type of therapy to help Patients relearn daily activities is occupational therapy. Learn more about stroke signs, treatment, and prevention from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Click here to learn more about speech therapy for stroke patients in the U.S. and how to get help with it in the UK and Canada. The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is on 1-800-273-8255. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch, or see www.samaritans.org for details. In the UK, call the National Suicide prevention Lifeline on 0800 555 111 or click here for details on how to contact the National suicide Prevention Helpline on 0300 123 90 90 or go to www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org. For information on suicide prevention in the Netherlands, visit www.sophie-sophia-uk.org or call the national suicide prevention helpline at 0800 273-TALK (8255 or 0800). In the United Kingdom, contact the Suicide Prevention helplines on 01457 909090 or 1-844-909090. For details on suicide Prevention in England and Wales, click here.
227	At least 1 million people a year in the United States get shingles. In clinical trials, the vaccine reduced the risk by 50%. It can also reduce pain in people who still get singles after being vaccinated. You should get the shot even if you have already had shingLES or don't remember having chickenpox. It is a safe and easy shot that may keep you from getting the disease.
228	 Occipital neuralgia is a distinct type of headache characterized by piercing, throbbing, or electric-shock-like chronic pain in the upper neck, back of the head, and behind the ears. The pain is often described as migraine-like and some patients may also experience symptoms common to migraines and cluster headaches. Causes can be the result of pinched nerves or muscle tightness in the neck. It can also be caused by a head or neck injury. A positive response (relief from pain) after an anesthetic nerve block will confirm the diagnosis. Symptoms include continuous aching, burning and throbbing with intermittent shocking or shooting pain that generally starts at the base of head and goes to the scalp on one or both sides of head. Patients often have pain behind the eye of the affected side of theHead. Patients may also have scalp tender to the touch, and their eyes especially sensitive to light. The location of pain is related to the areas supplied by the greater and lesser occipital nerves, which run from the area where the spinal column meets the neck, up to the head. Some individuals will also experience pain in. the scalp, forehead, andbehind the eyes. Osteoarthritis, gout, diabetes, blood vessel inflammation (vasculitis), and frequent lengthy. periods of keeping the head in a downward and forward position are also associated with occipitals. In many cases, however, no cause can be found and a positive response from pain is needed to confirm a diagnosis of the condition. The symptoms of occipITAL neuralGia can either be primary or secondary. A secondary condition is associated with an underlying disease.
230	Ropinirole may cause side effects: nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, heartburn or gas, diarrhea, constipation, decrease in appetite, weight loss, dizziness, drowsiness, tiredness, weakness, headache, sweating or flushing. Some side effects can be serious: pounding in the ears, rapid weight gain, sensation of spinninghallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fainting, chest pain, slow, fast, or irregular heartbeat, shortness of breath, difficulty swallowing, double vision or other changes in vision. In men, difficulty achieving or maintaining an erection, back, muscle, or joint pain, pain, burning, numbness and tingling in the hands or feet.
231	Damage stops progressing within 8 weeks. Without treatment, most people with Guillain-Barr syndrome improve slowly over several months. With early treatment, people can improve very quicklyin days or weeks. About 30% of people who had GBS continue to have muscle weakness years after the first symptoms of GBS. Some people with GBS may relapse after an original improvement of symptoms. The risk of relapse appears to be higher in people who have had a later onset of treatment, a longer-lasting disease, and other medical problems occurring at the same time. Physical, occupational, and speech therapy may be recommended to help people fully recover from GBS, but there is no cure for the syndrome. The symptoms of the syndrome can be improved with treatments including plasma exchange therapy and immunoglobulin therapy. Both of these therapies can help prevent the immune system from continuing to attack the peripheral nervous system. In some cases, corticosteroids have been used to try to alleviate symptoms ofGBS.
232	Urinary retention is when: You can't urinate (pee) at all or only a little You can urinate but there's still urine in your bladder after you're done With urinary retention: You may also leak urine and urinate without meaning to (urinary incontinence) Doctors may use a catheter (thin flexible tube) to empty your bladder. Certain medicines that can cause urinary retention are stopped whenever possible. Surgery is needed to direct urine from the bladder away from the urethra and out of the body. Men who have an enlarged prostate may need prostate surgery or drugs to shrink the prostate (for example, finasteride or dutasteride) or drugs that relax the muscles at the neck of the bladder. People who have nerve problems that interfere with bladder contractions or function may need to use aCatheter themselves periodically or have a Catheter permanently placed. If people cannot urinate at all, doctors immediately insert a thin rubber tube into the bladder to remove the retained urine and provide relief. The cause of urinary retention is treated.
234	There is no cure for most forms of tremor, but there are treatments to help manage symptoms. Primary orthostatic tremor (POT) is a rare, progressive that causes unsteadiness when standing still, due to a rapid affecting the legs and trunk. Deep brain stimulation is sometimes done when drugs cannot control a severe, disabling tremor. Physical, speech-language, and occupational therapy may help to control tremor and deal with the daily challenges caused by the treMor. If your tremor is caused by a certain medicine, stopping that medicine usually makes the tremor go away. If you find that caffeine and other stimulants trigger your tremors, it may be helpful to cut them from your diet. Work with a therapist to use weights on your wrists to hold your arm steady while reaching for things, or strapping a weight to your ankle when you walk, may help. For certain types, having a family history of getting tremor may raise your risk of getting it. These treatments are only available at special centers at certain centers. Such centers are only used when a drug therapy has been tried and has been effective and has not been effective at other times. For those with a history of having a tremor that is not mild, you may not need treatment if you need treatment for it when it is mild, but you may need it if it happens when you need to reach for things like a fork or a glass at mealtime. For some people, the only treatment that is effective is Botox injections in the leg muscles. For others, there is no treatment for essential tremors or tremors due to Parkinson disease or another disorder such as gabapentin or levodopa (levodopa or pramipexole) In some cases, treatment may include medications used for Parkinsons disease and/or botulinum toxin (Botox) injections. For people with Parkinson's disease, Botox may be used to help control tremors and improve quality of life for people with the disease. For more information, visit the Parkinson's Disease Association of America.
235	Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that occurs naturally in all parts of the body. High levels of cholesterol in the blood can increase your risk of heart disease. You are likely to have high cholesterol if members of your family have it, if you are overweight or if you eat a lot of fatty foods. You can lower your cholesterol by exercising more and eating more fruits and vegetables. You also may need to take cholesterol-lowering medicines. When deciding which medicine you should take and which dose you need, your health care provider will consider Your cholesterol levels Your risk for heart disease and stroke Your age Any other health problems you have Possible side effects of the medicines. Higher doses are more likely to cause side effects, especially over time. You need to keep taking your medicines and get regular cholesterol checks to make sure that you cholesterol levels are in a healthy range. Have your cholesterol checked more often (probably every year) if you have: Diabetes Heart disease Blood flow problems to your feet or legs A history of stroke A blood cholesterol test measures the level of total cholesterol. All men should have their blood cholesterol levels tested every 5 years, starting at age 35 years. This includes HDL (good) cholesterol and LDL (bad) cholesterol. Your LDL level is what health care providers watch most closely. Some people's body makes too much cholesterol, no matter what they eat. This kind of high cholesterol problem runs in families. If you have diabetes, not being active or drinking too much alcohol, you don't have to be fat to have a high cholesterol. If your LDL cholesterol level is 190 mg/dL or higher, you should have your cholesterol tested every five years. You should also have your blood cholesterol tested at a younger age, possibly as early as age 20 years, if they have risk factors forHeart disease.
238	Causes and Features of Memory Loss. Age-related memory changes (age-associated memory impairment) Occasional forgetfulness of such things as names or the location of car keys. No effect on thinking, other mental functions, or the ability to do daily activities. Mild cognitive impairment Memory loss that is more severe than expected for a person's age. Short-term memory loss. Dementia memory loss that becomes worse as time passes, eventually with no awareness of the loss. Many disorders can cause a deterioration of mental function that resembles dementia. They include the following: Normal-pressure hydrocephalus (due to excess fluid around the brain) Subdural hematomas (pockets of blood under the outer layer of the membranes covering the brain), Hypothyroidism (an underactive thyroid gland) Vitamin B12 deficiency.
239	Turner syndrome is a rare genetic condition in which a female does not have the usual pair of two X chromosomes. This condition occurs in about 1 in 2,500 newborn girls worldwide, but it is much more common among pregnancies that do not survive to term (miscarriages and stillbirths) In most cases, women with Turner syndrome are infertile.